---
layout: post
title: "Tor 0.2.1.7-alpha released"
permalink: tor-0.2.1.7-alpha-released
date: 11/21/2008
author: phobos
category: blog
tags: ["alpha release", "bugfix", "bugs"]
---

Tor 0.2.1.7-alpha fixes a major security problem in Debian and Ubuntu  
packages (and maybe other packages) noticed by Theo de Raadt, fixes  
a smaller security flaw that might allow an attacker to access local  
services, adds better defense against DNS poisoning attacks on exit  
relays, further improves hidden service performance, and fixes a variety  
of other issues.

[https://www.torproject.org/download](https://www.torproject.org/download "https://www.torproject.org/download")

Changes in version 0.2.1.7-alpha - 2008-11-08

**Security fixes:**

- The "ClientDNSRejectInternalAddresses" config option wasn't being  
 consistently obeyed: if an exit relay refuses a stream because its  
 exit policy doesn't allow it, we would remember what IP address  
 the relay said the destination address resolves to, even if it's  
 an internal IP address. Bugfix on 0.2.0.7-alpha; patch by rovv.
- The "User" and "Group" config options did not clear the  
 supplementary group entries for the Tor process. The "User" option  
 is now more robust, and we now set the groups to the specified  
 user's primary group. The "Group" option is now ignored. For more  
 detailed logging on credential switching, set CREDENTIAL\_LOG\_LEVEL  
 in common/compat.c to LOG\_NOTICE or higher. Patch by Jacob Appelbaum  
 and Steven Murdoch. Bugfix on 0.0.2pre14. Fixes bug 848.
- Do not use or believe expired v3 authority certificates. Patch  
 from Karsten. Bugfix in 0.2.0.x. Fixes bug 851.

**Minor features:**

- Now NodeFamily and MyFamily config options allow spaces in  
 identity fingerprints, so it's easier to paste them in.  
 Suggested by Lucky Green.
- Implement the 0x20 hack to better resist DNS poisoning: set the  
 case on outgoing DNS requests randomly, and reject responses that do  
 not match the case correctly. This logic can be disabled with the  
 ServerDNSRamdomizeCase setting, if you are using one of the 0.3%  
 of servers that do not reliably preserve case in replies. See  
 "Increased DNS Forgery Resistance through 0x20-Bit Encoding"  
 for more info.
- Preserve case in replies to DNSPort requests in order to support  
 the 0x20 hack for resisting DNS poisoning attacks.

**Hidden service performance improvements:**

- When the client launches an introduction circuit, retry with a  
 new circuit after 30 seconds rather than 60 seconds.
- Launch a second client-side introduction circuit in parallel  
 after a delay of 15 seconds (based on work by Christian Wilms).
- Hidden services start out building five intro circuits rather  
 than three, and when the first three finish they publish a service  
 descriptor using those. Now we publish our service descriptor much  
 faster after restart.

**Minor bugfixes:**

- Minor fix in the warning messages when you're having problems  
 bootstrapping; also, be more forgiving of bootstrap problems when  
 we're still making incremental progress on a given bootstrap phase.
- When we're choosing an exit node for a circuit, and we have  
 no pending streams, choose a good general exit rather than one that  
 supports "all the pending streams". Bugfix on 0.1.1.x. Fix by rovv.
- Send a valid END cell back when a client tries to connect to a  
 nonexistent hidden service port. Bugfix on 0.1.2.15. Fixes bug  
 840. Patch from rovv.
- If a broken client asks a non-exit router to connect somewhere,  
 do not even do the DNS lookup before rejecting the connection.  
 Fixes another case of bug 619. Patch from rovv.
- Fix another case of assuming, when a specific exit is requested,  
 that we know more than the user about what hosts it allows.  
 Fixes another case of bug 752. Patch from rovv.
- Check which hops rendezvous stream cells are associated with to  
 prevent possible guess-the-streamid injection attacks from  
 intermediate hops. Fixes another case of bug 446. Based on patch  
 from rovv.
- Avoid using a negative right-shift when comparing 32-bit  
 addresses. Possible fix for bug 845 and bug 811.
- Make the assert\_circuit\_ok() function work correctly on circuits that  
 have already been marked for close.
- Fix read-off-the-end-of-string error in unit tests when decoding  
 introduction points.
- Fix uninitialized size field for memory area allocation: may improve  
 memory performance during directory parsing.
- Treat duplicate certificate fetches as failures, so that we do  
 not try to re-fetch an expired certificate over and over and over.
- Do not say we're fetching a certificate when we'll in fact skip it  
 because of a pending download.

The original announcement can be found at [http://archives.seul.org/or/talk/Nov-2008/msg00229.html](http://archives.seul.org/or/talk/Nov-2008/msg00229.html "http://archives.seul.org/or/talk/Nov-2008/msg00229.html")

