---
layout: post
title: "Tor 0.2.1.20 Released"
permalink: tor-02120-released
date: 11/13/2009
author: phobos
category: blog
tags: ["bugfixes", "bundle upgrades", "performance enhancements", "vidalia updates"]
---

Tor 0.2.1.20 fixes a crash bug when you're accessing many hidden services  
at once, prepares for more performance improvements, and fixes a bunch  
of smaller bugs.

The Windows and OS X bundles also include a more recent Vidalia, and  
switch from Privoxy to Polipo.

The OS X installers are now drag and drop. It's best to un-install  
Tor/Vidalia and then install this new bundle, rather than upgrade. If  
you want to upgrade, you'll need to update the paths for Tor and Polipo  
in the Vidalia Settings window.

[https://www.torproject.org/easy-download](https://www.torproject.org/easy-download "https://www.torproject.org/easy-download")

Changes in version 0.2.1.20 - 2009-10-15  
 o Major bugfixes:

- Send circuit or stream sendme cells when our window has decreased  
 by 100 cells, not when it has decreased by 101 cells. Bug uncovered  
 by Karsten when testing the "reduce circuit window" performance  
 patch. Bugfix on the 54th commit on Tor -- from July 2002,  
 before the release of Tor 0.0.0. This is the new winner of the  
 oldest-bug prize.  
 - Fix a remotely triggerable memory leak when a consensus document  
 contains more than one signature from the same voter. Bugfix on  
 0.2.0.3-alpha.  
 - Avoid segfault in rare cases when finishing an introduction circuit  
 as a client and finding out that we don't have an introduction key  
 for it. Fixes bug 1073. Reported by Aaron Swartz.

o Major features:

- Tor now reads the "circwindow" parameter out of the consensus,  
 and uses that value for its circuit package window rather than the  
 default of 1000 cells. Begins the implementation of proposal 168.

o New directory authorities:

- Set up urras (run by Jacob Appelbaum) as the seventh v3 directory  
 authority.  
 - Move moria1 and tonga to alternate IP addresses.

o Minor bugfixes:

- Fix a signed/unsigned compile warning in 0.2.1.19.  
 - Fix possible segmentation fault on directory authorities. Bugfix on  
 0.2.1.14-rc.  
 - Fix an extremely rare infinite recursion bug that could occur if  
 we tried to log a message after shutting down the log subsystem.  
 Found by Matt Edman. Bugfix on 0.2.0.16-alpha.  
 - Fix an obscure bug where hidden services on 64-bit big-endian  
 systems might mis-read the timestamp in v3 introduce cells, and  
 refuse to connect back to the client. Discovered by "rotor".  
 Bugfix on 0.2.1.6-alpha.  
 - We were triggering a CLOCK\_SKEW controller status event whenever  
 we connect via the v2 connection protocol to any relay that has  
 a wrong clock. Instead, we should only inform the controller when  
 it's a trusted authority that claims our clock is wrong. Bugfix  
 on 0.2.0.20-rc; starts to fix bug 1074. Reported by SwissTorExit.  
 - We were telling the controller about CHECKING\_REACHABILITY and  
 REACHABILITY\_FAILED status events whenever we launch a testing  
 circuit or notice that one has failed. Instead, only tell the  
 controller when we want to inform the user of overall success or  
 overall failure. Bugfix on 0.1.2.6-alpha. Fixes bug 1075. Reported  
 by SwissTorExit.  
 - Don't warn when we're using a circuit that ends with a node  
 excluded in ExcludeExitNodes, but the circuit is not used to access  
 the outside world. This should help fix bug 1090. Bugfix on  
 0.2.1.6-alpha.  
 - Work around a small memory leak in some versions of OpenSSL that  
 stopped the memory used by the hostname TLS extension from being  
 freed.

o Minor features:

- Add a "getinfo status/accepted-server-descriptor" controller  
 command, which is the recommended way for controllers to learn  
 whether our server descriptor has been successfully received by at  
 least on directory authority. Un-recommend good-server-descriptor  
 getinfo and status events until we have a better design for them.

