---
layout: post
title: "Tor 0.2.1.14-rc released"
permalink: tor-02114rc-released
date: 04/14/2009
author: phobos
category: blog
tags: ["bug fixes", "improvements", "release candidate"]
---

Changes in version 0.2.1.14-rc - 2009-04-12  
**Major features:**

- Clients replace entry guards that were chosen more than a few months ago. This change should significantly improve client performance, especially once more people upgrade, since relays that have been a guard for a long time are currently overloaded.

**Major bugfixes (on 0.2.0):**

- Finally fix the bug where dynamic-IP relays disappear when their IP address changes: directory mirrors were mistakenly telling them their old address if they asked via begin\_dir, so they never got an accurate answer about their new address, so they just vanished after a day. For belt-and-suspenders, relays that don't set Address in their config now avoid using begin\_dir for all direct connections. Should fix bugs 827, 883, and 900.
- Relays were falling out of the networkstatus consensus for part of a day if they changed their local config but the authorities discarded their new descriptor as "not sufficiently different". Now directory authorities accept a descriptor as changed if bandwidthrate or bandwidthburst changed. Partial fix for bug 962; patch by Sebastian.
- Avoid crashing in the presence of certain malformed descriptors. Found by lark, and by automated fuzzing.

**Minor features:**

- When generating circuit events with verbose nicknames for controllers, try harder to look up nicknames for routers on a circuit. (Previously, we would look in the router descriptors we had for nicknames, but not in the consensus.) Partial fix for bug 941.
- If the bridge config line doesn't specify a port, assume 443. This makes bridge lines a bit smaller and easier for users to understand.
- Raise the minimum bandwidth to be a relay from 20000 bytes to 20480 bytes (aka 20KB/s), to match our documentation. Also update directory authorities so they always assign the Fast flag to relays with 20KB/s of capacity. Now people running relays won't suddenly find themselves not seeing any use, if the network gets faster on average.
- Update to the "April 3 2009" ip-to-country file.

**Minor bugfixes:**

- Avoid trying to print raw memory to the logs when we decide to give up on downloading a given relay descriptor. Bugfix on 0.2.1.9-alpha.
- In tor-resolve, when the Tor client to use is specified by :, actually use the specified port rather than defaulting to 9050. Bugfix on 0.2.1.6-alpha.
- Make directory usage recording work again. Bugfix on 0.2.1.6-alpha.
- When starting with a cache over a few days old, do not leak memory for the obsolete router descriptors in it. Bugfix on 0.2.0.33.
- Avoid double-free on list of successfully uploaded hidden service discriptors. Fix for bug 948. Bugfix on 0.2.1.6-alpha.
- Change memarea\_strndup() implementation to work even when duplicating a string at the end of a page. This bug was harmless for now, but could have meant crashes later. Fix by lark. Bugfix on 0.2.1.1-alpha.
- Limit uploaded directory documents to be 16M rather than 500K. The directory authorities were refusing v3 consensus votes from other authorities, since the votes are now 504K. Fixes bug 959; bugfix on 0.0.2pre17 (where we raised it from 50K to 500K ;).
- Directory authorities should never send a 503 "busy" response to requests for votes or keys. Bugfix on 0.2.0.8-alpha; exposed by bug 959.

