---
layout: post
title: "Tor 0.2.1.6-alpha Released"
permalink: tor-0.2.1.6-alpha-released
date: 2008-10-15
author: phobos
category: blog
tags: ["alpha", "bug fixes"]
---

Tor 0.2.1.6-alpha further improves performance and robustness of hidden  
services, starts work on supporting per-country relay selection, and  
fixes a variety of smaller issues.

The original announcement can be found at  
 [http://archives.seul.org/or/talk/Oct-2008/msg00093.html](http://archives.seul.org/or/talk/Oct-2008/msg00093.html "http://archives.seul.org/or/talk/Oct-2008/msg00093.html")

Changes in version 0.2.1.6-alpha - 2008-09-30

- Major features:

  - Implement proposal 121: make it possible to build hidden services  
 that only certain clients are allowed to connect to. This is  
 enforced at several points, so that unauthorized clients are unable  
 to send INTRODUCE cells to the service, or even (depending on the  
 type of authentication) to learn introduction points. This feature  
 raises the bar for certain kinds of active attacks against hidden  
 services. Code by Karsten Loesing.
  - Relays now store and serve v2 hidden service descriptors by default,  
 i.e., the new default value for HidServDirectoryV2 is 1. This is  
 the last step in proposal 114, which aims to make hidden service  
 lookups more reliable.
  - Start work to allow node restrictions to include country codes. The  
 syntax to exclude nodes in a country with country code XX is  
 "ExcludeNodes {XX}". Patch from Robert Hogan. It still needs some  
 refinement to decide what config options should take priority if  
 you ask to both use a particular node and exclude it.
  - Allow ExitNodes list to include IP ranges and country codes, just  
 like the Exclude\*Nodes lists. Patch from Robert Hogan.
- Major bugfixes:

  - Fix a bug when parsing ports in tor\_addr\_port\_parse() that caused  
 Tor to fail to start if you had it configured to use a bridge  
 relay. Fixes bug 809. Bugfix on 0.2.1.5-alpha.
  - When extending a circuit to a hidden service directory to upload a  
 rendezvous descriptor using a BEGIN\_DIR cell, almost 1/6 of all  
 requests failed, because the router descriptor had not been  
 downloaded yet. In these cases, we now wait until the router  
 descriptor is downloaded, and then retry. Likewise, clients  
 now skip over a hidden service directory if they don't yet have  
 its router descriptor, rather than futilely requesting it and  
 putting mysterious complaints in the logs. Fixes bug 767. Bugfix  
 on 0.2.0.10-alpha.
  - When fetching v0 and v2 rendezvous service descriptors in parallel,  
 we were failing the whole hidden service request when the v0  
 descriptor fetch fails, even if the v2 fetch is still pending and  
 might succeed. Similarly, if the last v2 fetch fails, we were  
 failing the whole hidden service request even if a v0 fetch is  
 still pending. Fixes bug 814. Bugfix on 0.2.0.10-alpha.
  - DNS replies need to have names matching their requests, but  
 these names should be in the questions section, not necessarily  
 in the answers section. Fixes bug 823. Bugfix on 0.2.1.5-alpha.
- Minor features:

  - Update to the "September 1 2008" ip-to-country file.  
 - Allow ports 465 and 587 in the default exit policy again. We had  
 rejected them in 0.1.0.15, because back in 2005 they were commonly  
 misconfigured and ended up as spam targets. We hear they are better  
 locked down these days.
  - Use a lockfile to make sure that two Tor processes are not  
 simultaneously running with the same datadir.
  - Serve the latest v3 networkstatus consensus via the control  
 port. Use "getinfo dir/status-vote/current/consensus" to fetch it.
  - Better logging about stability/reliability calculations on directory  
 servers.
  - Drop the requirement to have an open dir port for storing and  
 serving v2 hidden service descriptors.
  - Directory authorities now serve a /tor/dbg-stability.txt URL to  
 help debug WFU and MTBF calculations.
  - Implement most of Proposal 152: allow specialized servers to permit  
 single-hop circuits, and clients to use those servers to build  
 single-hop circuits when using a specialized controller. Patch  
 from Josh Albrecht. Resolves feature request 768.
  - Add a -p option to tor-resolve for specifying the SOCKS port: some  
 people find host:port too confusing.
  - Make TrackHostExit mappings expire a while after their last use, not  
 after their creation. Patch from Robert Hogan.
  - Provide circuit purposes along with circuit events to the controller.
- Minor bugfixes:

  - Fix compile on OpenBSD 4.4-current. Bugfix on 0.2.1.5-alpha.  
 Reported by Tas.
  - Fixed some memory leaks -- some quite frequent, some almost  
 impossible to trigger -- based on results from Coverity.
  - When testing for libevent functions, set the LDFLAGS variable  
 correctly. Found by Riastradh.
  - Fix an assertion bug in parsing policy-related options; possible fix  
 for bug 811.
  - Catch and report a few more bootstrapping failure cases when Tor  
 fails to establish a TCP connection. Cleanup on 0.2.1.x.
  - Avoid a bug where the FastFirstHopPK 0 option would keep Tor from  
 bootstrapping with tunneled directory connections. Bugfix on  
 0.1.2.5-alpha. Fixes bug 797. Found by Erwin Lam.
  - When asked to connect to A.B.exit:80, if we don't know the IP for A  
 and we know that server B rejects most-but-not all connections to  
 port 80, we would previously reject the connection. Now, we assume  
 the user knows what they were asking for. Fixes bug 752. Bugfix  
 on 0.0.9rc5. Diagnosed by BarkerJr.
  - If we are not using BEGIN\_DIR cells, don't attempt to contact hidden  
 service directories if they have no advertised dir port. Bugfix  
 on 0.2.0.10-alpha.
  - If we overrun our per-second write limits a little, count this as  
 having used up our write allocation for the second, and choke  
 outgoing directory writes. Previously, we had only counted this when  
 we had met our limits precisely. Fixes bug 824. Patch from by rovv.  
 Bugfix on 0.2.0.x (??).
  - Avoid a "0 divided by 0" calculation when calculating router uptime  
 at directory authorities. Bugfix on 0.2.0.8-alpha.
  - Make DNS resolved controller events into "CLOSED", not  
 "FAILED". Bugfix on 0.1.2.5-alpha. Fix by Robert Hogan. Resolves  
 bug 807.
  - Fix a bug where an unreachable relay would establish enough  
 reachability testing circuits to do a bandwidth test -- if  
 we already have a connection to the middle hop of the testing  
 circuit, then it could establish the last hop by using the existing  
 connection. Bugfix on 0.1.2.2-alpha, exposed when we made testing  
 circuits no longer use entry guards in 0.2.1.3-alpha.
  - If we have correct permissions on $datadir, we complain to stdout  
 and fail to start. But dangerous permissions on  
 $datadir/cached-status/ would cause us to open a log and complain  
 there. Now complain to stdout and fail to start in both cases. Fixes  
 bug 820, reported by seeess.
  - Remove the old v2 directory authority 'lefkada' from the default  
 list. It has been gone for many months.
- Code simplifications and refactoring:

  - Revise the connection\_new functions so that a more typesafe variant  
 exists. This will work better with Coverity, and let us find any  
 actual mistakes we're making here.
  - Refactor unit testing logic so that dmalloc can be used sensibly  
 with unit tests to check for memory leaks.
  - Move all hidden-service related fields from connection and circuit  
 structure to substructures: this way they won't eat so much memory.

