---
layout: post
title: "Tor 0.2.0.31 Released"
permalink: blog/tor-0.2.0.31-released
date: 2008-09-09
author: phobos
category: blog
tags: ["bug fixes", "stable release"]
---

A better formatted version of this can be found at the [OR-Announce Archives](http://archives.seul.org/or/announce/Sep-2008/msg00000.html).

Tor 0.2.0.31 addresses two potential anonymity issues, starts to fix
a big bug we're seeing where in rare cases traffic from one Tor stream
gets mixed into another stream, and fixes a variety of smaller issues.

[https://www.torproject.org/download.html](https://www.torproject.org/download.html "https://www.torproject.org/download.html")

Changes in version 0.2.0.31 - 2008-09-03
 o Major bugfixes:
 - Make sure that two circuits can never exist on the same connection
 with the same circuit ID, even if one is marked for close. This
 is conceivably a bugfix for bug 779. Bugfix on 0.1.0.4-rc.
 - Relays now reject risky extend cells: if the extend cell includes
 a digest of all zeroes, or asks to extend back to the relay that
 sent the extend cell, tear down the circuit. Ideas suggested
 by rovv.
 - If not enough of our entry guards are available so we add a new
 one, we might use the new one even if it overlapped with the
 current circuit's exit relay (or its family). Anonymity bugfix
 pointed out by rovv.

o Minor bugfixes:
 - Recover 3-7 bytes that were wasted per memory chunk. Fixes bug
 794; bug spotted by rovv. Bugfix on 0.2.0.1-alpha.
 - Correctly detect the presence of the linux/netfilter\_ipv4.h header
 when building against recent kernels. Bugfix on 0.1.2.1-alpha.
 - Pick size of default geoip filename string correctly on windows.
 Fixes bug 806. Bugfix on 0.2.0.30.
 - Make the autoconf script accept the obsolete --with-ssl-dir
 option as an alias for the actually-working --with-openssl-dir
 option. Fix the help documentation to recommend --with-openssl-dir.
 Based on a patch by "Dave". Bugfix on 0.2.0.1-alpha.
 - Disallow session resumption attempts during the renegotiation
 stage of the v2 handshake protocol. Clients should never be trying
 session resumption at this point, but apparently some did, in
 ways that caused the handshake to fail. Bug found by Geoff Goodell.
 Bugfix on 0.2.0.20-rc.
 - When using the TransPort option on OpenBSD, and using the User
 option to change UID and drop privileges, make sure to open
 /dev/pf before dropping privileges. Fixes bug 782. Patch from
 Christopher Davis. Bugfix on 0.1.2.1-alpha.
 - Try to attach connections immediately upon receiving a RENDEZVOUS2
 or RENDEZVOUS\_ESTABLISHED cell. This can save a second or two
 on the client side when connecting to a hidden service. Bugfix
 on 0.0.6pre1. Found and fixed by Christian Wilms; resolves bug 743.
 - When closing an application-side connection because its circuit is
 getting torn down, generate the stream event correctly. Bugfix on
 0.1.2.x. Anonymous patch.

