---
layout: post
title: "Tor 0.2.1.9-alpha released"
permalink: tor-0.2.1.9-alpha-released
date: 2009-01-05
author: phobos
category: blog
tags: ["alpha release", "bug fixes", "deprecated features", "security fixes"]
---

Tor 0.2.1.9-alpha fixes many more bugs, some of them security-related.

[https://www.torproject.org/download.html.en](https://www.torproject.org/download.html.en "https://www.torproject.org/download.html.en")

Changes in version 0.2.1.9-alpha - 2008-12-25  
**New directory authorities:**

- gabelmoo (the authority run by Karsten Loesing) now has a new  
 IP address.

**Security fixes:**

- Never use a connection with a mismatched address to extend a  
 circuit, unless that connection is canonical. A canonical  
 connection is one whose address is authenticated by the router's  
 identity key, either in a NETINFO cell or in a router descriptor.
- Avoid a possible memory corruption bug when receiving hidden service  
 descriptors. Bugfix on 0.2.1.6-alpha.

**Major bugfixes:**

- Fix a logic error that would automatically reject all but the first  
 configured DNS server. Bugfix on 0.2.1.5-alpha. Possible fix for  
 part of bug 813/868. Bug spotted by coderman.
- When a stream at an exit relay is in state "resolving" or  
 "connecting" and it receives an "end" relay cell, the exit relay  
 would silently ignore the end cell and not close the stream. If  
 the client never closes the circuit, then the exit relay never  
 closes the TCP connection. Bug introduced in 0.1.2.1-alpha;  
 reported by "wood".
- When we can't initialize DNS because the network is down, do not  
 automatically stop Tor from starting. Instead, retry failed  
 dns\_inits() every 10 minutes, and change the exit policy to reject  
 \*:\* until one succeeds. Fixes bug 691.

**Minor features:**

- Give a better error message when an overzealous init script says  
 "sudo -u username tor --user username". Makes Bug 882 easier for  
 users to diagnose.
- When a directory authority gives us a new guess for our IP address,  
 log which authority we used. Hopefully this will help us debug  
 the recent complaints about bad IP address guesses.
- Detect svn revision properly when we're using git-svn.
- Try not to open more than one descriptor-downloading connection  
 to an authority at once. This should reduce load on directory  
 authorities. Fixes bug 366.
- Add cross-certification to newly generated certificates, so that  
 a signing key is enough information to look up a certificate.  
 Partial implementation of proposal 157.
- Start serving certificates by (identity digest, signing key digest)  
 pairs. Partial implementation of proposal 157.
- Clients now never report any stream end reason except 'MISC'.  
 Implements proposal 148.
- On platforms with a maximum syslog string length, truncate syslog  
 messages to that length ourselves, rather than relying on the  
 system to do it for us.
- Optimize out calls to time(NULL) that occur for every IO operation,  
 or for every cell. On systems where time() is a slow syscall,  
 this fix will be slightly helpful.
- Exit servers can now answer resolve requests for ip6.arpa addresses.
- When we download a descriptor that we then immediately (as  
 a directory authority) reject, do not retry downloading it right  
 away. Should save some bandwidth on authorities. Fix for bug  
 888. Patch by Sebastian Hahn.
- When a download gets us zero good descriptors, do not notify  
 Tor that new directory information has arrived.
- Avoid some nasty corner cases in the logic for marking connections  
 as too old or obsolete or noncanonical for circuits.

**Minor features (controller):**

- New CONSENSUS\_ARRIVED event to note when a new consensus has  
 been fetched and validated.
- When we realize that another process has modified our cached  
 descriptors file, print out a more useful error message rather  
 than triggering an assertion. Fixes bug 885. Patch from Karsten.
- Add an internal-use-only \_\_ReloadTorrcOnSIGHUP option for  
 controllers to prevent SIGHUP from reloading the  
 configuration. Fixes bug 856.

**Minor bugfixes:**

- Resume using the correct "REASON=" stream when telling the  
 controller why we closed a stream. Bugfix in 0.2.1.1-alpha.
- When a canonical connection appears later in our internal list  
 than a noncanonical one for a given OR ID, always use the  
 canonical one. Bugfix on 0.2.0.12-alpha. Fixes bug 805.  
 Spotted by rovv.
- Clip the MaxCircuitDirtiness config option to a minimum of 10  
 seconds. Warn the user if lower values are given in the  
 configuration. Bugfix on 0.1.0.1-rc. Patch by Sebastian.
- Clip the CircuitBuildTimeout to a minimum of 30 seconds. Warn the  
 user if lower values are given in the configuration. Bugfix on  
 0.1.1.17-rc. Patch by Sebastian.
- Fix a race condition when freeing keys shared between main thread  
 and CPU workers that could result in a memory leak. Bugfix on  
 0.1.0.1-rc. Fixes bug 889.

**Minor bugfixes (hidden services):**

- Do not throw away existing introduction points on SIGHUP (bugfix on  
 0.0.6pre1); also, do not stall hidden services because we're  
 throwing away introduction points; bugfix on 0.2.1.7-alpha. Spotted  
 by John Brooks. Patch by Karsten. Fixes bug 874.
- Fix a memory leak when we decline to add a v2 rendezvous  
 descriptor to the cache because we already had a v0 descriptor  
 with the same ID. Bugfix on 0.2.0.18-alpha.

**Deprecated and removed features:**

- RedirectExits has been removed. It was deprecated since  
 0.2.0.3-alpha.
- Finally remove deprecated "EXTENDED\_FORMAT" controller feature. It  
 has been called EXTENDED\_EVENTS since 0.1.2.4-alpha.
- Cell pools are now always enabled; --disable-cell-pools is ignored.

**Code simplifications and refactoring:**

- Rename the confusing or\_is\_obsolete field to the more appropriate  
 is\_bad\_for\_new\_circs, and move it to or\_connection\_t where it  
 belongs.
- Move edge-only flags from connection\_t to edge\_connection\_t: not  
 only is this better coding, but on machines of plausible alignment,  
 it should save 4-8 bytes per connection\_t. "Every little bit helps."
- Rename ServerDNSAllowBrokenResolvConf to ServerDNSAllowBrokenConfig  
 for consistency; keep old option working for backward compatibility.
- Simplify the code for finding connections to use for a circuit.

Original signed announcement at [http://archives.seul.org/or/talk/Jan-2009/msg00029.html](http://archives.seul.org/or/talk/Jan-2009/msg00029.html "http://archives.seul.org/or/talk/Jan-2009/msg00029.html")

