---
layout: post
title: "Tor 0.2.1.17-rc released"
permalink: blog/tor-02117rc-released
date: 2009-07-13
author: phobos
category: blog
tags: ["bug fixes", "release candidate", "tor"]
---

Tor 0.2.1.17-rc marks the fourth -- and hopefully last -- release
candidate for the 0.2.1.x series. It lays the groundwork for further
client performance improvements, and also fixes a big bug with directory
authorities that were causing them to assign Guard and Stable flags
poorly.

The Windows bundles also finally include the geoip database that we
thought we'd been shipping since 0.2.0.x (oops), and the OS X bundles
should actually install Torbutton rather than giving you a cryptic
failure message (oops).

This is a release candidate! That means that we don't know of any
remaining show-stopping bugs, and 0.2.1.18 will be the new stable if
there are no problems. Please test it, and tell us about any problems
that you find.

[https://www.torproject.org/download](https://www.torproject.org/download "https://www.torproject.org/download")

Changes in version 0.2.1.17-rc - 2009-07-02
**Major features:**

- Clients now use the bandwidth values in the consensus, rather than
 the bandwidth values in each relay descriptor. This approach opens
 the door to more accurate bandwidth estimates once the directory
 authorities start doing active measurements. Implements more of
 proposal 141.

**Major bugfixes:**

- When Tor clients restart after 1-5 days, they discard all their
 cached descriptors as too old, but they still use the cached
 consensus document. This approach is good for robustness, but
 bad for performance: since they don't know any bandwidths, they
 end up choosing at random rather than weighting their choice by
 speed. Fixed by the above feature of putting bandwidths in the
 consensus. Bugfix on 0.2.0.x.
- Directory authorities were neglecting to mark relays down in their
 internal histories if the relays fall off the routerlist without
 ever being found unreachable. So there were relays in the histories
 that haven't been seen for eight months, and are listed as being
 up for eight months. This wreaked havoc on the "median wfu"
 and "median mtbf" calculations, in turn making Guard and Stable
 flags very wrong, hurting network performance. Fixes bugs 696 and
 969. Bugfix on 0.2.0.6-alpha.

**Minor bugfixes:**

- Serve the DirPortFrontPage page even when we have been approaching
 our quotas recently. Fixes bug 1013; bugfix on 0.2.1.8-alpha.
- The control port would close the connection before flushing long
 replies, such as the network consensus, if a QUIT command was issued
 before the reply had completed. Now, the control port flushes all
 pending replies before closing the connection. Also fixed a spurious
 warning when a QUIT command is issued after a malformed or rejected
 AUTHENTICATE command, but before the connection was closed. Patch
 by Marcus Griep. Bugfix on 0.2.0.x; fixes bugs 1015 and 1016.
- When we can't find an intro key for a v2 hidden service descriptor,
 fall back to the v0 hidden service descriptor and log a bug message.
 Workaround for bug 1024.

**Minor features:**

- If we're a relay and we change our IP address, be more verbose
 about the reason that made us change. Should help track down
 further bugs for relays on dynamic IP addresses.

