---
layout: post
title: "Tor 0.2.2.17-alpha is out"
permalink: blog/tor-02217-alpha-out
date: 2010-10-04
author: phobos
category: blog
tags: ["alpha release", "bandwidth fixes", "best tor ever", "bug fixes", "refuse unknown exits"]
---

Tor 0.2.2.17-alpha introduces a feature to make it harder for clients to use one-hop circuits (which can put the exit relays at higher risk, plus unbalance the network); fixes a big bug in bandwidth accounting for relays that want to limit their monthly bandwidth use; fixes a big pile of bugs in how clients tolerate temporary network failure; and makes our adaptive circuit build timeout feature (which improves client performance if your network is fast while not breaking things if your network is slow) better handle bad networks.

[https://www.torproject.org/download.html.en](https://www.torproject.org/download.html.en "https://www.torproject.org/download.html.en")

Packages will be appearing over the next few days.

The original announcement is [http://archives.seul.org/or/talk/Oct-2010/msg00001.html](http://archives.seul.org/or/talk/Oct-2010/msg00001.html "http://archives.seul.org/or/talk/Oct-2010/msg00001.html")

> Changes in version 0.2.2.17-alpha - 2010-09-30
> o Major features:
> - Exit relays now try harder to block exit attempts from unknown
> relays, to make it harder for people to use them as one-hop proxies
> a la tortunnel. Controlled by the refuseunknownexits consensus
> parameter (currently enabled), or you can override it on your
> relay with the RefuseUnknownExits torrc option. Resolves bug 1751.
>
> o Major bugfixes (0.2.1.x and earlier):
> - Fix a bug in bandwidth accounting that could make us use twice
> the intended bandwidth when our interval start changes due to
> daylight saving time. Now we tolerate skew in stored vs computed
> interval starts: if the start of the period changes by no more than
> 50% of the period's duration, we remember bytes that we transferred
> in the old period. Fixes bug 1511; bugfix on 0.0.9pre5.
> - Always search the Windows system directory for system DLLs, and
> nowhere else. Bugfix on 0.1.1.23; fixes bug 1954.
> - When you're using bridges and your network goes away and your
> bridges get marked as down, recover when you attempt a new socks
> connection (if the network is back), rather than waiting up to an
> hour to try fetching new descriptors for your bridges. Bugfix on
> 0.2.0.3-alpha; fixes bug 1981.
>
> o Major bugfixes (on 0.2.2.x):
> - Fix compilation on Windows. Bugfix on 0.2.2.16-alpha; related to
> bug 1797.
> - Fix a segfault that could happen when operating a bridge relay with
> no GeoIP database set. Fixes bug 1964; bugfix on 0.2.2.15-alpha.
> - The consensus bandwidth-weights (used by clients to choose fast
> relays) entered an unexpected edge case in September where
> Exits were much scarcer than Guards, resulting in bad weight
> recommendations. Now we compute them using new constraints that
> should succeed in all cases. Also alter directory authorities to
> not include the bandwidth-weights line if they fail to produce
> valid values. Fixes bug 1952; bugfix on 0.2.2.10-alpha.
> - When weighting bridges during path selection, we used to trust
> the bandwidths they provided in their descriptor, only capping them
> at 10MB/s. This turned out to be problematic for two reasons:
> Bridges could claim to handle a lot more traffic then they
> actually would, thus making more clients pick them and have a
> pretty effective DoS attack. The other issue is that new bridges
> that might not have a good estimate for their bw capacity yet
> would not get used at all unless no other bridges are available
> to a client. Fixes bug 1912; bugfix on 0.2.2.7-alpha.
>
> o Major bugfixes (on the circuit build timeout feature, 0.2.2.x):
> - Ignore cannibalized circuits when recording circuit build times.
> This should provide for a minor performance improvement for hidden
> service users using 0.2.2.14-alpha, and should remove two spurious
> notice log messages. Bugfix on 0.2.2.14-alpha; fixes bug 1740.
> - Simplify the logic that causes us to decide if the network is
> unavailable for purposes of recording circuit build times. If we
> receive no cells whatsoever for the entire duration of a circuit's
> full measured lifetime, the network is probably down. Also ignore
> one-hop directory fetching circuit timeouts when calculating our
> circuit build times. These changes should hopefully reduce the
> cases where we see ridiculous circuit build timeouts for people
> with spotty wireless connections. Fixes part of bug 1772; bugfix
> on 0.2.2.2-alpha.
> - Prevent the circuit build timeout from becoming larger than
> the maximum build time we have ever seen. Also, prevent the time
> period for measurement circuits from becoming larger than twice that
> value. Fixes the other part of bug 1772; bugfix on 0.2.2.2-alpha.
>
> o Minor features:
> - When we run out of directory information such that we can't build
> circuits, but then get enough that we can build circuits, log when
> we actually construct a circuit, so the user has a better chance of
> knowing what's going on. Fixes bug 1362.
> - Be more generous with how much bandwidth we'd use up (with
> accounting enabled) before entering "soft hibernation". Previously,
> we'd refuse new connections and circuits once we'd used up 95% of
> our allotment. Now, we use up 95% of our allotment, AND make sure
> that we have no more than 500MB (or 3 hours of expected traffic,
> whichever is lower) remaining before we enter soft hibernation.
> - If we've configured EntryNodes and our network goes away and/or all
> our entrynodes get marked down, optimistically retry them all when
> a new socks application request appears. Fixes bug 1882.
> - Add some more defensive programming for architectures that can't
> handle unaligned integer accesses. We don't know of any actual bugs
> right now, but that's the best time to fix them. Fixes bug 1943.
> - Support line continuations in the torrc config file. If a line
> ends with a single backslash character, the newline is ignored, and
> the configuration value is treated as continuing on the next line.
> Resolves bug 1929.
>
> o Minor bugfixes (on 0.2.1.x and earlier):
> - For bandwidth accounting, calculate our expected bandwidth rate
> based on the time during which we were active and not in
> soft-hibernation during the last interval. Previously, we were
> also considering the time spent in soft-hibernation. If this
> was a long time, we would wind up underestimating our bandwidth
> by a lot, and skewing our wakeup time towards the start of the
> accounting interval. Fixes bug 1789. Bugfix on 0.0.9pre5.
>
> o Minor bugfixes (on 0.2.2.x):
> - Resume generating CIRC FAILED REASON=TIMEOUT control port messages,
> which were disabled by the circuit build timeout changes in
> 0.2.2.14-alpha. Bugfix on 0.2.2.14-alpha; fixes bug 1739.
> - Make sure we don't warn about missing bandwidth weights when
> choosing bridges or other relays not in the consensus. Bugfix on
> 0.2.2.10-alpha; fixes bug 1805.
> - In our logs, do not double-report signatures from unrecognized
> authorities both as "from unknown authority" and "not
> present". Fixes bug 1956, bugfix on 0.2.2.16-alpha.
