---
layout: post
title: "Tor 0.2.2.25-alpha is out"
permalink: tor-02225-alpha-out
date: 2011-05-02 22:55:47
author: erinn
category: blog
status: closed
tags: ["alpha releases", "bugfixes", "feature enhancements", "security fixes", "strictnodes", "tor"]
---

Tor 0.2.2.25-alpha fixes many bugs: hidden service clients are more  
 robust, routers no longer overreport their bandwidth, Win7 should crash  
 a little less, and NEWNYM (as used by Vidalia's "new identity" button)  
 now prevents hidden service-related activity from being linkable. It  
 provides more information to Vidalia so you can see if your bridge is  
 working. Also, 0.2.2.25-alpha revamps the Entry/Exit/ExcludeNodes and  
 StrictNodes configuration options to make them more reliable, more  
 understandable, and more regularly applied. If you use those options,  
 please see the revised documentation for them in the manual page.

[https://www.torproject.org/download/download](https://www.torproject.org/download/download "https://www.torproject.org/download/download")

**Major bugfixes:**

-   Relays were publishing grossly inflated bandwidth values because  
     they were writing their state files wrong--now they write the  
     correct value. Also, resume reading bandwidth history from the  
     state file correctly. Fixes bug 2704; bugfix on 0.2.2.23-alpha.
-   Improve hidden service robustness: When we find that we have  
     extended a hidden service's introduction circuit to a relay not  
     listed as an introduction point in the HS descriptor we currently  
     have, retry with an introduction point from the current  
     descriptor. Previously we would just give up. Fixes bugs 1024 and  
     1930; bugfix on 0.2.0.10-alpha.
-   Clients now stop trying to use an exit node associated with a given  
     destination by TrackHostExits if they fail to reach that exit node.  
     Fixes bug 2999. Bugfix on 0.2.0.20-rc.
-   Fix crash bug on platforms where gmtime and localtime can return  
     NULL. Windows 7 users were running into this one. Fixes part of bug  
     2077. Bugfix on all versions of Tor. Found by boboper.

**Security and stability fixes:**

-   Don't double-free a parsable, but invalid, microdescriptor, even if  
     it is followed in the blob we're parsing by an unparsable  
     microdescriptor. Fixes an issue reported in a comment on bug 2954.  
     Bugfix on 0.2.2.6-alpha; fix by "cypherpunks".
-   If the Nickname configuration option isn't given, Tor would pick a  
     nickname based on the local hostname as the nickname for a relay.  
     Because nicknames are not very important in today's Tor and the  
     "Unnamed" nickname has been implemented, this is now problematic  
     behavior: It leaks information about the hostname without being  
     useful at all. Fixes bug 2979; bugfix on 0.1.2.2-alpha, which  
     introduced the Unnamed nickname. Reported by tagnaq.
-   Fix an uncommon assertion failure when running with DNSPort under  
     heavy load. Fixes bug 2933; bugfix on 0.2.0.1-alpha.
-   Avoid linkability based on cached hidden service descriptors: forget  
     all hidden service descriptors cached as a client when processing a  
     SIGNAL NEWNYM command. Fixes bug 3000; bugfix on 0.0.6.

**Major features:**

-   Export GeoIP information on bridge usage to controllers even if we  
     have not yet been running for 24 hours. Now Vidalia bridge operators  
     can get more accurate and immediate feedback about their  
     contributions to the network.

**Major features and bugfixes (node selection):**

-   Revise and reconcile the meaning of the ExitNodes, EntryNodes,  
     ExcludeEntryNodes, ExcludeExitNodes, ExcludeNodes, and StrictNodes  
     options. Previously, we had been ambiguous in describing what  
     counted as an "exit" node, and what operations exactly "StrictNodes  
     0" would permit. This created confusion when people saw nodes built  
     through unexpected circuits, and made it hard to tell real bugs from  
     surprises. Now the intended behavior is:
    -   "Exit", in the context of ExitNodes and ExcludeExitNodes, means  
         a node that delivers user traffic outside the Tor network.
    -   "Entry", in the context of EntryNodes, means a node used as the  
         first hop of a multihop circuit. It doesn't include direct  
         connections to directory servers.
    -   "ExcludeNodes" applies to all nodes.
    -   "StrictNodes" changes the behavior of ExcludeNodes only. When  
         StrictNodes is set, Tor should avoid all nodes listed in  
         ExcludeNodes, even when it will make user requests fail. When  
         StrictNodes is \*not\* set, then Tor should follow ExcludeNodes  
         whenever it can, except when it must use an excluded node to  
         perform self-tests, connect to a hidden service, provide a  
         hidden service, fulfill a .exit request, upload directory  
         information, or fetch directory information.

    Collectively, the changes to implement the behavior fix bug 1090.
-   ExcludeNodes now takes precedence over EntryNodes and ExitNodes: if  
     a node is listed in both, it's treated as excluded.
-   ExcludeNodes now applies to directory nodes -- as a preference if  
     StrictNodes is 0, or an absolute requirement if StrictNodes is 1.  
     Don't exclude all the directory authorities and set StrictNodes to 1  
     unless you really want your Tor to break.
-   ExcludeNodes and ExcludeExitNodes now override exit enclaving.
-   ExcludeExitNodes now overrides .exit requests.
-   We don't use bridges listed in ExcludeNodes.
-   When StrictNodes is 1:
    -   We now apply ExcludeNodes to hidden service introduction points  
         and to rendezvous points selected by hidden service users. This  
         can make your hidden service less reliable: use it with caution!
    -   If we have used ExcludeNodes on ourself, do not try relay  
         reachability self-tests.
    -   If we have excluded all the directory authorities, we will not  
         even try to upload our descriptor if we're a relay.
    -   Do not honor .exit requests to an excluded node.
-   Remove a misfeature that caused us to ignore the Fast/Stable flags  
     when ExitNodes is set. Bugfix on 0.2.2.7-alpha.
-   When the set of permitted nodes changes, we now remove any mappings  
     introduced via TrackExitHosts to now-excluded nodes. Bugfix on  
     0.1.0.1-rc.
-   We never cannibalize a circuit that had excluded nodes on it, even  
     if StrictNodes is 0. Bugfix on 0.1.0.1-rc.
-   Revert a change where we would be laxer about attaching streams to  
     circuits than when building the circuits. This was meant to prevent  
     a set of bugs where streams were never attachable, but our improved  
     code here should make this unnecessary. Bugfix on 0.2.2.7-alpha.
-   Keep track of how many times we launch a new circuit to handle a  
     given stream. Too many launches could indicate an inconsistency  
     between our "launch a circuit to handle this stream" logic and our  
     "attach this stream to one of the available circuits" logic.
-   Improve log messages related to excluded nodes.

**Minor bugfixes:**

-   Fix a spurious warning when moving from a short month to a long  
     month on relays with month-based BandwidthAccounting. Bugfix on  
     0.2.2.17-alpha; fixes bug 3020.
-   When a client finds that an origin circuit has run out of 16-bit  
     stream IDs, we now mark it as unusable for new streams. Previously,  
     we would try to close the entire circuit. Bugfix on 0.0.6.
-   Add a forgotten cast that caused a compile warning on OS X 10.6.  
     Bugfix on 0.2.2.24-alpha.
-   Be more careful about reporting the correct error from a failed  
     connect() system call. Under some circumstances, it was possible to  
     look at an incorrect value for errno when sending the end reason.  
     Bugfix on 0.1.0.1-rc.
-   Correctly handle an "impossible" overflow cases in connection byte  
     counting, where we write or read more than 4GB on an edge connection  
     in a single second. Bugfix on 0.1.2.8-beta.
-   Correct the warning displayed when a rendezvous descriptor exceeds  
     the maximum size. Fixes bug 2750; bugfix on 0.2.1.5-alpha. Found by  
     John Brooks.
-   Clients and hidden services now use HSDir-flagged relays for hidden  
     service descriptor downloads and uploads even if the relays have no  
     DirPort set and the client has disabled TunnelDirConns. This will  
     eventually allow us to give the HSDir flag to relays with no  
     DirPort. Fixes bug 2722; bugfix on 0.2.1.6-alpha.
-   Downgrade "no current certificates known for authority" message from  
     Notice to Info. Fixes bug 2899; bugfix on 0.2.0.10-alpha.
-   Make the SIGNAL DUMP control-port command work on FreeBSD. Fixes bug  
     2917. Bugfix on 0.1.1.1-alpha.
-   Only limit the lengths of single HS descriptors, even when multiple  
     HS descriptors are published to an HSDir relay in a single POST  
     operation. Fixes bug 2948; bugfix on 0.2.1.5-alpha. Found by hsdir.
-   Write the current time into the LastWritten line in our state file,  
     rather than the time from the previous write attempt. Also, stop  
     trying to use a time of -1 in our log statements. Fixes bug 3039;  
     bugfix on 0.2.2.14-alpha.
-   Be more consistent in our treatment of file system paths. "\~" should  
     get expanded to the user's home directory in the Log config option.  
     Fixes bug 2971; bugfix on 0.2.0.1-alpha, which introduced the  
     feature for the -f and --DataDirectory options.

**Minor features:**

-   Make sure every relay writes a state file at least every 12 hours.  
     Previously, a relay could go for weeks without writing its state  
     file, and on a crash could lose its bandwidth history, capacity  
     estimates, client country statistics, and so on. Addresses bug 3012.
-   Send END\_STREAM\_REASON\_NOROUTE in response to EHOSTUNREACH errors.  
     Clients before 0.2.1.27 didn't handle NOROUTE correctly, but such  
     clients are already deprecated because of security bugs.
-   Don't allow v0 hidden service authorities to act as clients.  
     Required by fix for bug 3000.
-   Ignore SIGNAL NEWNYM commands on relay-only Tor instances. Required  
     by fix for bug 3000.
-   Ensure that no empty [dirreq-](read|write)-history lines are added  
     to an extrainfo document. Implements ticket 2497.

**Code simplification and refactoring:**

-   Remove workaround code to handle directory responses from servers  
     that had bug 539 (they would send HTTP status 503 responses \_and\_  
     send a body too). Since only server versions before  
     0.2.0.16-alpha/0.1.2.19 were affected, there is no longer reason to  
     keep the workaround in place.
-   Remove the old 'fuzzy time' logic. It was supposed to be used for  
     handling calculations where we have a known amount of clock skew and  
     an allowed amount of unknown skew. But we only used it in three  
     places, and we never adjusted the known/unknown skew values. This is  
     still something we might want to do someday, but if we do, we'll  
     want to do it differently.
-   Avoid signed/unsigned comparisons by making SIZE\_T\_CEILING unsigned.  
     None of the cases where we did this before were wrong, but by making  
     this change we avoid warnings. Fixes bug 2475; bugfix on 0.2.1.28.
-   Use GetTempDir to find the proper temporary directory location on  
     Windows when generating temporary files for the unit tests. Patch by  
     Gisle Vanem.

