---
layout: post
title: "Tor 0.2.2.24-alpha is out"
permalink: tor-02224-alpha-out
date: 2011-04-13
author: erinn
category: blog
tags: ["alpha releases", "bug fixes", "tor"]
---

Tor 0.2.2.24-alpha fixes a variety of bugs, including a big bug that  
 prevented Tor clients from effectively using "multihomed" bridges,  
 that is, bridges that listen on multiple ports or IP addresses so users  
 can continue to use some of their addresses even if others get blocked.

[https://www.torproject.org/download/download](https://www.torproject.org/download/download "https://www.torproject.org/download/download")

**Major bugfixes:**

- Fix a bug where bridge users who configure the non-canonical  
 address of a bridge automatically switch to its canonical  
 address. If a bridge listens at more than one address, it should be  
 able to advertise those addresses independently and any non-blocked  
 addresses should continue to work. Bugfix on Tor 0.2.0.x. Fixes  
 bug 2510.
- If you configured Tor to use bridge A, and then quit and  
 configured Tor to use bridge B instead, it would happily continue  
 to use bridge A if it's still reachable. While this behavior is  
 a feature if your goal is connectivity, in some scenarios it's a  
 dangerous bug. Bugfix on Tor 0.2.0.1-alpha; fixes bug 2511.
- Directory authorities now use data collected from their own  
 uptime observations when choosing whether to assign the HSDir flag  
 to relays, instead of trusting the uptime value the relay reports in  
 its descriptor. This change helps prevent an attack where a small  
 set of nodes with frequently-changing identity keys can blackhole  
 a hidden service. (Only authorities need upgrade; others will be  
 fine once they do.) Bugfix on 0.2.0.10-alpha; fixes bug 2709.

**Minor bugfixes:**

- When we restart our relay, we might get a successful connection  
 from the outside before we've started our reachability tests,  
 triggering a warning: "ORPort found reachable, but I have no  
 routerinfo yet. Failing to inform controller of success." This  
 bug was harmless unless Tor is running under a controller  
 like Vidalia, in which case the controller would never get a  
 REACHABILITY\_SUCCEEDED status event. Bugfix on 0.1.2.6-alpha;  
 fixes bug 1172.
- Make directory authorities more accurate at recording when  
 relays that have failed several reachability tests became  
 unreachable, so we can provide more accuracy at assigning Stable,  
 Guard, HSDir, etc flags. Bugfix on 0.2.0.6-alpha. Resolves bug 2716.  
 - Fix an issue that prevented static linking of libevent on  
 some platforms (notably Linux). Fixes bug 2698; bugfix on  
 versions 0.2.1.23/0.2.2.8-alpha (the versions introducing  
 the --with-static-libevent configure option).
- We now ask the other side of a stream (the client or the exit)  
 for more data on that stream when the amount of queued data on  
 that stream dips low enough. Previously, we wouldn't ask the  
 other side for more data until either it sent us more data (which  
 it wasn't supposed to do if it had exhausted its window!) or we  
 had completely flushed all our queued data. This flow control fix  
 should improve throughput. Fixes bug 2756; bugfix on the earliest  
 released versions of Tor (svn commit r152).
- Avoid a double-mark-for-free warning when failing to attach a  
 transparent proxy connection. (We thought we had fixed this in  
 0.2.2.23-alpha, but it turns out our fix was checking the wrong  
 connection.) Fixes bug 2757; bugfix on 0.1.2.1-alpha (the original  
 bug) and 0.2.2.23-alpha (the incorrect fix).
- When warning about missing zlib development packages during compile,  
 give the correct package names. Bugfix on 0.2.0.1-alpha.

**Minor features:**

- Directory authorities now log the source of a rejected POSTed v3  
 networkstatus vote.
- Make compilation with clang possible when using  
 --enable-gcc-warnings by removing two warning optionss that clang  
 hasn't implemented yet and by fixing a few warnings. Implements  
 ticket 2696.
- When expiring circuits, use microsecond timers rather than  
 one-second timers. This can avoid an unpleasant situation where a  
 circuit is launched near the end of one second and expired right  
 near the beginning of the next, and prevent fluctuations in circuit  
 timeout values.
- Use computed circuit-build timeouts to decide when to launch  
 parallel introduction circuits for hidden services. (Previously,  
 we would retry after 15 seconds.)

**Packaging fixes:**

- Create the /var/run/tor directory on startup on OpenSUSE if it is  
 not already created. Patch from Andreas Stieger. Fixes bug 2573.

**Documentation changes:**

- Modernize the doxygen configuration file slightly. Fixes bug 2707.
- Resolve all doxygen warnings except those for missing documentation.  
 Fixes bug 2705.
- Add doxygen documentation for more functions, fields, and types.

