---
layout: post
title: "Tor 0.2.2.23-alpha is out"
permalink: tor-02223-alpha-out
date: 2011-03-10 06:41:17
author: erinn
category: blog
status: closed
tags: ["alpha releases", "bug fixes", "directory authorities", "tor"]
---

Tor 0.2.2.23-alpha lets relays record their bandwidth history so when  
 they restart they don't lose their bandwidth capacity estimate. This  
 release also fixes a diverse set of user-facing bugs, ranging from  
 relays overrunning their rate limiting to clients falsely warning about  
 clock skew to bridge descriptor leaks by our bridge directory authority.

[https://torproject.org/download/download](https://torproject.org/download/download "https://torproject.org/download/download")

**Major bugfixes:**

-   Stop sending a CLOCK\_SKEW controller status event whenever  
     we fetch directory information from a relay that has a wrong clock.  
     Instead, only inform the controller when it's a trusted authority  
     that claims our clock is wrong. Bugfix on 0.1.2.6-alpha; fixes  
     the rest of bug 1074.
-   Fix an assert in parsing router descriptors containing IPv6  
     addresses. This one took down the directory authorities when  
     somebody tried some experimental code. Bugfix on 0.2.1.3-alpha.
-   Make the bridge directory authority refuse to answer directory  
     requests for "all" descriptors. It used to include bridge  
     descriptors in its answer, which was a major information leak.  
     Found by "piebeer". Bugfix on 0.2.0.3-alpha.
-   If relays set RelayBandwidthBurst but not RelayBandwidthRate,  
     Tor would ignore their RelayBandwidthBurst setting,  
     potentially using more bandwidth than expected. Bugfix on  
     0.2.0.1-alpha. Reported by Paul Wouters. Fixes bug 2470.
-   Ignore and warn if the user mistakenly sets "PublishServerDescriptor  
     hidserv" in her torrc. The 'hidserv' argument never controlled  
     publication of hidden service descriptors. Bugfix on 0.2.0.1-alpha.

**Major features:**

-   Relays now save observed peak bandwidth throughput rates to their  
     state file (along with total usage, which was already saved)  
     so that they can determine their correct estimated bandwidth on  
     restart. Resolves bug 1863, where Tor relays would reset their  
     estimated bandwidth to 0 after restarting.
-   Directory authorities now take changes in router IP address and  
     ORPort into account when determining router stability. Previously,  
     if a router changed its IP or ORPort, the authorities would not  
     treat it as having any downtime for the purposes of stability  
     calculation, whereas clients would experience downtime since the  
     change could take a while to propagate to them. Resolves issue 1035.
-   Enable Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) and Data Execution  
     Prevention (DEP) by default on Windows to make it harder for  
     attackers to exploit vulnerabilities. Patch from John Brooks.

**Minor bugfixes (on 0.2.1.x and earlier):**

-   Fix a rare crash bug that could occur when a client was configured  
     with a large number of bridges. Fixes bug 2629; bugfix on  
     0.2.1.2-alpha. Bugfix by trac user "shitlei".
-   Avoid a double mark-for-free warning when failing to attach a  
     transparent proxy connection. Bugfix on 0.1.2.1-alpha. Fixes  
     bug 2279.
-   Correctly detect failure to allocate an OpenSSL BIO. Fixes bug 2378;  
     found by "cypherpunks". This bug was introduced before the first  
     Tor release, in svn commit r110.
-   Country codes aren't supported in EntryNodes until 0.2.3.x, so  
     don't mention them in the manpage. Fixes bug 2450; issue  
     spotted by keb and G-Lo.
-   Fix a bug in bandwidth history state parsing that could have been  
     triggered if a future version of Tor ever changed the timing  
     granularity at which bandwidth history is measured. Bugfix on  
     Tor 0.1.1.11-alpha.
-   When a relay decides that its DNS is too broken for it to serve  
     as an exit server, it advertised itself as a non-exit, but  
     continued to act as an exit. This could create accidental  
     partitioning opportunities for users. Instead, if a relay is  
     going to advertise reject \*:\* as its exit policy, it should  
     really act with exit policy "reject \*:\*". Fixes bug 2366.  
     Bugfix on Tor 0.1.2.5-alpha. Bugfix by user "postman" on trac.
-   In the special case where you configure a public exit relay as your  
     bridge, Tor would be willing to use that exit relay as the last  
     hop in your circuit as well. Now we fail that circuit instead.  
     Bugfix on 0.2.0.12-alpha. Fixes bug 2403. Reported by "piebeer".
-   Fix a bug with our locking implementation on Windows that couldn't  
     correctly detect when a file was already locked. Fixes bug 2504,  
     bugfix on 0.2.1.6-alpha.
-   Fix IPv6-related connect() failures on some platforms (BSD, OS X).  
     Bugfix on 0.2.0.3-alpha; fixes first part of bug 2660. Patch by  
     "piebeer".
-   Set target port in get\_interface\_address6() correctly. Bugfix  
     on 0.1.1.4-alpha and 0.2.0.3-alpha; fixes second part of bug 2660.
-   Directory authorities are now more robust to hops back in time  
     when calculating router stability. Previously, if a run of uptime  
     or downtime appeared to be negative, the calculation could give  
     incorrect results. Bugfix on 0.2.0.6-alpha; noticed when fixing  
     bug 1035.
-   Fix an assert that got triggered when using the TestingTorNetwork  
     configuration option and then issuing a GETINFO config-text control  
     command. Fixes bug 2250; bugfix on 0.2.1.2-alpha.

**Minor bugfixes (on 0.2.2.x):**

-   Clients should not weight BadExit nodes as Exits in their node  
     selection. Similarly, directory authorities should not count BadExit  
     bandwidth as Exit bandwidth when computing bandwidth-weights.  
     Bugfix on 0.2.2.10-alpha; fixes bug 2203.
-   Correctly clear our dir\_read/dir\_write history when there is an  
     error parsing any bw history value from the state file. Bugfix on  
     Tor 0.2.2.15-alpha.
-   Resolve a bug in verifying signatures of directory objects  
     with digests longer than SHA1. Bugfix on 0.2.2.20-alpha.  
     Fixes bug 2409. Found by "piebeer".
-   Bridge authorities no longer crash on SIGHUP when they try to  
     publish their relay descriptor to themselves. Fixes bug 2572. Bugfix  
     on 0.2.2.22-alpha.

**Minor features:**

-   Log less aggressively about circuit timeout changes, and improve  
     some other circuit timeout messages. Resolves bug 2004.
-   Log a little more clearly about the times at which we're no longer  
     accepting new connections. Resolves bug 2181.
-   Reject attempts at the client side to open connections to private  
     IP addresses (like 127.0.0.1, 10.0.0.1, and so on) with  
     a randomly chosen exit node. Attempts to do so are always  
     ill-defined, generally prevented by exit policies, and usually  
     in error. This will also help to detect loops in transparent  
     proxy configurations. You can disable this feature by setting  
     "ClientRejectInternalAddresses 0" in your torrc.
-   Always treat failure to allocate an RSA key as an unrecoverable  
     allocation error.
-   Update to the March 1 2011 Maxmind GeoLite Country database.

**Minor features (log subsystem):**

-   Add documentation for configuring logging at different severities in  
     different log domains. We've had this feature since 0.2.1.1-alpha,  
     but for some reason it never made it into the manpage. Fixes  
     bug 2215.
-   Make it simpler to specify "All log domains except for A and B".  
     Previously you needed to say "[\*,\~A,\~B]". Now you can just say  
     "[\~A,\~B]".
-   Add a "LogMessageDomains 1" option to include the domains of log  
     messages along with the messages. Without this, there's no way  
     to use log domains without reading the source or doing a lot  
     of guessing.

**Packaging changes:**

-   Stop shipping the Tor specs files and development proposal documents  
     in the tarball. They are now in a separate git repository at  
     git://git.torproject.org/torspec.git

