---
layout: post
title: "Tor 0.2.1.30 is released"
permalink: tor-02130-released
date: 2011-03-05
author: erinn
category: blog
tags: ["stable releases", "tor"]
---

Tor 0.2.1.30 fixes a variety of less critical bugs. The main other change is a slight tweak to Tor's TLS handshake that makes relays and bridges that run this new version reachable from Iran again. We don't expect this tweak will win the arms race long-term, but it buys us time until we roll out a better solution.

[https://www.torproject.org/download/download](https://www.torproject.org/download/download "https://www.torproject.org/download/download")

**Major bugfixes:**

- Stop sending a CLOCK\_SKEW controller status event whenever  
 we fetch directory information from a relay that has a wrong clock.  
 Instead, only inform the controller when it's a trusted authority  
 that claims our clock is wrong. Bugfix on 0.1.2.6-alpha; fixes  
 the rest of bug 1074.
- Fix a bounds-checking error that could allow an attacker to  
 remotely crash a directory authority. Bugfix on 0.2.1.5-alpha.  
 Found by "piebeer".
- If relays set RelayBandwidthBurst but not RelayBandwidthRate,  
 Tor would ignore their RelayBandwidthBurst setting,  
 potentially using more bandwidth than expected. Bugfix on  
 0.2.0.1-alpha. Reported by Paul Wouters. Fixes bug 2470.
- Ignore and warn if the user mistakenly sets "PublishServerDescriptor  
 hidserv" in her torrc. The 'hidserv' argument never controlled  
 publication of hidden service descriptors. Bugfix on 0.2.0.1-alpha.

**Minor features:**

- Adjust our TLS Diffie-Hellman parameters to match those used by  
 Apache's mod\_ssl.
- Update to the February 1 2011 Maxmind GeoLite Country database.

**Minor bugfixes:**

- Check for and reject overly long directory certificates and  
 directory tokens before they have a chance to hit any assertions.  
 Bugfix on 0.2.1.28. Found by "doorss".
- Bring the logic that gathers routerinfos and assesses the  
 acceptability of circuits into line. This prevents a Tor OP from  
 getting locked in a cycle of choosing its local OR as an exit for a  
 path (due to a .exit request) and then rejecting the circuit because  
 its OR is not listed yet. It also prevents Tor clients from using an  
 OR running in the same instance as an exit (due to a .exit request)  
 if the OR does not meet the same requirements expected of an OR  
 running elsewhere. Fixes bug 1859; bugfix on 0.1.0.1-rc.

**Packaging changes:**

- Stop shipping the Tor specs files and development proposal documents  
 in the tarball. They are now in a separate git repository at  
 git://git.torproject.org/torspec.git
- Do not include Git version tags as though they are SVN tags when  
 generating a tarball from inside a repository that has switched  
 between branches. Bugfix on 0.2.1.15-rc; fixes bug 2402.

