---
layout: post
title: "Tor 0.2.2.32 is released"
permalink: blog/tor-02232-released
date: 2011-08-30
author: erinn
category: blog
tags: ["android", "anonymity enhancements", "anonymity fixes", "best tor ever", "bug fixes", "dedication", "feature enhancements", "hidden services", "new features", "performance improvements", "stable release", "tor releases"]
---

The Tor 0.2.2 release series is dedicated to the memory of Andreas
Pfitzmann (1958-2010), a pioneer in anonymity and privacy research,
a founder of the PETS community, a leader in our field, a mentor,
and a friend. He left us with these words: "I had the possibility
to contribute to this world that is not as it should be. I hope I
could help in some areas to make the world a better place, and that
I could also encourage other people to be engaged in improving the
world. Please, stay engaged. This world needs you, your love, your
initiative -- now I cannot be part of that anymore."

Tor 0.2.2.32, the first stable release in the 0.2.2 branch, is finally
ready. More than two years in the making, this release features improved
client performance and hidden service reliability, better compatibility
for Android, correct behavior for bridges that listen on more than
one address, more extensible and flexible directory object handling,
better reporting of network statistics, improved code security, and
many many other features and bugfixes.

[https://www.torproject.org/download/download](https://www.torproject.org/download/download "https://www.torproject.org/download/download")

Changes in version 0.2.2.32 - 2011-08-27
**Major features (client performance):**

- When choosing which cells to relay first, relays now favor circuits
 that have been quiet recently, to provide lower latency for
 low-volume circuits. By default, relays enable or disable this
 feature based on a setting in the consensus. They can override
 this default by using the new "CircuitPriorityHalflife" config
 option. Design and code by Ian Goldberg, Can Tang, and Chris
 Alexander.
- Directory authorities now compute consensus weightings that instruct
 clients how to weight relays flagged as Guard, Exit, Guard+Exit,
 and no flag. Clients use these weightings to distribute network load
 more evenly across these different relay types. The weightings are
 in the consensus so we can change them globally in the future. Extra
 thanks to "outofwords" for finding some nasty security bugs in
 the first implementation of this feature.

**Major features (client performance, circuit build timeout):**

- Tor now tracks how long it takes to build client-side circuits
 over time, and adapts its timeout to local network performance.
 Since a circuit that takes a long time to build will also provide
 bad performance, we get significant latency improvements by
 discarding the slowest 20% of circuits. Specifically, Tor creates
 circuits more aggressively than usual until it has enough data
 points for a good timeout estimate. Implements proposal 151.
- Circuit build timeout constants can be controlled by consensus
 parameters. We set good defaults for these parameters based on
 experimentation on broadband and simulated high-latency links.
- Circuit build time learning can be disabled via consensus parameter
 or by the client via a LearnCircuitBuildTimeout config option. We
 also automatically disable circuit build time calculation if either
 AuthoritativeDirectory is set, or if we fail to write our state
 file. Implements ticket 1296.

**Major features (relays use their capacity better):**

- Set SO\_REUSEADDR socket option on all sockets, not just
 listeners. This should help busy exit nodes avoid running out of
 useable ports just because all the ports have been used in the
 near past. Resolves issue 2850.
- Relays now save observed peak bandwidth throughput rates to their
 state file (along with total usage, which was already saved),
 so that they can determine their correct estimated bandwidth on
 restart. Resolves bug 1863, where Tor relays would reset their
 estimated bandwidth to 0 after restarting.
- Lower the maximum weighted-fractional-uptime cutoff to 98%. This
 should give us approximately 40-50% more Guard-flagged nodes,
 improving the anonymity the Tor network can provide and also
 decreasing the dropoff in throughput that relays experience when
 they first get the Guard flag.
- Directory authorities now take changes in router IP address and
 ORPort into account when determining router stability. Previously,
 if a router changed its IP or ORPort, the authorities would not
 treat it as having any downtime for the purposes of stability
 calculation, whereas clients would experience downtime since the
 change would take a while to propagate to them. Resolves issue 1035.
- New AccelName and AccelDir options add support for dynamic OpenSSL
 hardware crypto acceleration engines.

**Major features (relays control their load better):**

- Exit relays now try harder to block exit attempts from unknown
 relays, to make it harder for people to use them as one-hop proxies
 a la tortunnel. Controlled by the refuseunknownexits consensus
 parameter (currently enabled), or you can override it on your
 relay with the RefuseUnknownExits torrc option. Resolves bug 1751;
 based on a variant of proposal 163.
- Add separate per-conn write limiting to go with the per-conn read
 limiting. We added a global write limit in Tor 0.1.2.5-alpha,
 but never per-conn write limits.
- New consensus params "bwconnrate" and "bwconnburst" to let us
 rate-limit client connections as they enter the network. It's
 controlled in the consensus so we can turn it on and off for
 experiments. It's starting out off. Based on proposal 163.

**Major features (controllers):**

- Export GeoIP information on bridge usage to controllers even if we
 have not yet been running for 24 hours. Now Vidalia bridge operators
 can get more accurate and immediate feedback about their
 contributions to the network.
- Add an \_\_OwningControllerProcess configuration option and a
 TAKEOWNERSHIP control-port command. Now a Tor controller can ensure
 that when it exits, Tor will shut down. Implements feature 3049.

**Major features (directory authorities):**

- Directory authorities now create, vote on, and serve multiple
 parallel formats of directory data as part of their voting process.
 Partially implements Proposal 162: "Publish the consensus in
 multiple flavors".
- Directory authorities now agree on and publish small summaries
 of router information that clients can use in place of regular
 server descriptors. This transition will allow Tor 0.2.3 clients
 to use far less bandwidth for downloading information about the
 network. Begins the implementation of Proposal 158: "Clients
 download consensus + microdescriptors".
- The directory voting system is now extensible to use multiple hash
 algorithms for signatures and resource selection. Newer formats
 are signed with SHA256, with a possibility for moving to a better
 hash algorithm in the future.
- Directory authorities can now vote on arbitary integer values as
 part of the consensus process. This is designed to help set
 network-wide parameters. Implements proposal 167.

**Major features and bugfixes (node selection):**

- Revise and reconcile the meaning of the ExitNodes, EntryNodes,
 ExcludeEntryNodes, ExcludeExitNodes, ExcludeNodes, and Strict\*Nodes
 options. Previously, we had been ambiguous in describing what
 counted as an "exit" node, and what operations exactly "StrictNodes
 0" would permit. This created confusion when people saw nodes built
 through unexpected circuits, and made it hard to tell real bugs from
 surprises. Now the intended behavior is:
  - "Exit", in the context of ExitNodes and ExcludeExitNodes, means
 a node that delivers user traffic outside the Tor network.
  - "Entry", in the context of EntryNodes, means a node used as the
 first hop of a multihop circuit. It doesn't include direct
 connections to directory servers.
  - "ExcludeNodes" applies to all nodes.
  - "StrictNodes" changes the behavior of ExcludeNodes only. When
 StrictNodes is set, Tor should avoid all nodes listed in
 ExcludeNodes, even when it will make user requests fail. When
 StrictNodes is \*not\* set, then Tor should follow ExcludeNodes
 whenever it can, except when it must use an excluded node to
 perform self-tests, connect to a hidden service, provide a
 hidden service, fulfill a .exit request, upload directory
 information, or fetch directory information.

Collectively, the changes to implement the behavior fix bug 1090.

- If EntryNodes, ExitNodes, ExcludeNodes, or ExcludeExitNodes
 change during a config reload, mark and discard all our origin
 circuits. This fix should address edge cases where we change the
 config options and but then choose a circuit that we created before
 the change.
- Make EntryNodes config option much more aggressive even when
 StrictNodes is not set. Before it would prepend your requested
 entrynodes to your list of guard nodes, but feel free to use others
 after that. Now it chooses only from your EntryNodes if any of
 those are available, and only falls back to others if a) they're
 all down and b) StrictNodes is not set.
- Now we refresh your entry guards from EntryNodes at each consensus
 fetch -- rather than just at startup and then they slowly rot as
 the network changes.
- Add support for the country code "{??}" in torrc options like
 ExcludeNodes, to indicate all routers of unknown country. Closes
 bug 1094.
- ExcludeNodes now takes precedence over EntryNodes and ExitNodes: if
 a node is listed in both, it's treated as excluded.
- ExcludeNodes now applies to directory nodes -- as a preference if
 StrictNodes is 0, or an absolute requirement if StrictNodes is 1.
 Don't exclude all the directory authorities and set StrictNodes to 1
 unless you really want your Tor to break.
- ExcludeNodes and ExcludeExitNodes now override exit enclaving.
- ExcludeExitNodes now overrides .exit requests.
- We don't use bridges listed in ExcludeNodes.
- When StrictNodes is 1:
  - We now apply ExcludeNodes to hidden service introduction points
 and to rendezvous points selected by hidden service users. This
 can make your hidden service less reliable: use it with caution!
  - If we have used ExcludeNodes on ourself, do not try relay
 reachability self-tests.
  - If we have excluded all the directory authorities, we will not
 even try to upload our descriptor if we're a relay.
  - Do not honor .exit requests to an excluded node.

- When the set of permitted nodes changes, we now remove any mappings
 introduced via TrackExitHosts to now-excluded nodes. Bugfix on
 0.1.0.1-rc.
- We never cannibalize a circuit that had excluded nodes on it, even
 if StrictNodes is 0. Bugfix on 0.1.0.1-rc.
- Improve log messages related to excluded nodes.

**Major features (misc):**

- Numerous changes, bugfixes, and workarounds from Nathan Freitas
 to help Tor build correctly for Android phones.
- The options SocksPort, ControlPort, and so on now all accept a
 value "auto" that opens a socket on an OS-selected port. A
 new ControlPortWriteToFile option tells Tor to write its
 actual control port or ports to a chosen file. If the option
 ControlPortFileGroupReadable is set, the file is created as
 group-readable. Now users can run two Tor clients on the same
 system without needing to manually mess with parameters. Resolves
 part of ticket 3076.
- Tor now supports tunneling all of its outgoing connections over
 a SOCKS proxy, using the SOCKS4Proxy and/or SOCKS5Proxy
 configuration options. Code by Christopher Davis.

**Code security improvements:**

- Replace all potentially sensitive memory comparison operations
 with versions whose runtime does not depend on the data being
 compared. This will help resist a class of attacks where an
 adversary can use variations in timing information to learn
 sensitive data. Fix for one case of bug 3122. (Safe memcmp
 implementation by Robert Ransom based partially on code by DJB.)
- Enable Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR) and Data Execution
 Prevention (DEP) by default on Windows to make it harder for
 attackers to exploit vulnerabilities. Patch from John Brooks.
- New "--enable-gcc-hardening" ./configure flag (off by default)
 to turn on gcc compile time hardening options. It ensures
 that signed ints have defined behavior (-fwrapv), enables
 -D\_FORTIFY\_SOURCE=2 (requiring -O2), adds stack smashing protection
 with canaries (-fstack-protector-all), turns on ASLR protection if
 supported by the kernel (-fPIE, -pie), and adds additional security
 related warnings. Verified to work on Mac OS X and Debian Lenny.
- New "--enable-linker-hardening" ./configure flag (off by default)
 to turn on ELF specific hardening features (relro, now). This does
 not work with Mac OS X or any other non-ELF binary format.
- Always search the Windows system directory for system DLLs, and
 nowhere else. Bugfix on 0.1.1.23; fixes bug 1954.
- New DisableAllSwap option. If set to 1, Tor will attempt to lock all
 current and future memory pages via mlockall(). On supported
 platforms (modern Linux and probably BSD but not Windows or OS X),
 this should effectively disable any and all attempts to page out
 memory. This option requires that you start your Tor as root --
 if you use DisableAllSwap, please consider using the User option
 to properly reduce the privileges of your Tor.

**Major bugfixes (crashes):**

- Fix crash bug on platforms where gmtime and localtime can return
 NULL. Windows 7 users were running into this one. Fixes part of bug
 2077. Bugfix on all versions of Tor. Found by boboper.
- Introduce minimum/maximum values that clients will believe
 from the consensus. Now we'll have a better chance to avoid crashes
 or worse when a consensus param has a weird value.
- Fix a rare crash bug that could occur when a client was configured
 with a large number of bridges. Fixes bug 2629; bugfix on
 0.2.1.2-alpha. Bugfix by trac user "shitlei".
- Do not crash when our configuration file becomes unreadable, for
 example due to a permissions change, between when we start up
 and when a controller calls SAVECONF. Fixes bug 3135; bugfix
 on 0.0.9pre6.
- If we're in the pathological case where there's no exit bandwidth
 but there is non-exit bandwidth, or no guard bandwidth but there
 is non-guard bandwidth, don't crash during path selection. Bugfix
 on 0.2.0.3-alpha.
- Fix a crash bug when trying to initialize the evdns module in
 Libevent 2. Bugfix on 0.2.1.16-rc.

**Major bugfixes (stability):**

- Fix an assert in parsing router descriptors containing IPv6
 addresses. This one took down the directory authorities when
 somebody tried some experimental code. Bugfix on 0.2.1.3-alpha.
- Fix an uncommon assertion failure when running with DNSPort under
 heavy load. Fixes bug 2933; bugfix on 0.2.0.1-alpha.
- Treat an unset $HOME like an empty $HOME rather than triggering an
 assert. Bugfix on 0.0.8pre1; fixes bug 1522.
- More gracefully handle corrupt state files, removing asserts
 in favor of saving a backup and resetting state.
- Instead of giving an assertion failure on an internal mismatch
 on estimated freelist size, just log a BUG warning and try later.
 Mitigates but does not fix bug 1125.
- Fix an assert that got triggered when using the TestingTorNetwork
 configuration option and then issuing a GETINFO config-text control
 command. Fixes bug 2250; bugfix on 0.2.1.2-alpha.
- If the cached cert file is unparseable, warn but don't exit.

**Privacy fixes (relays/bridges):**

- Don't list Windows capabilities in relay descriptors. We never made
 use of them, and maybe it's a bad idea to publish them. Bugfix
 on 0.1.1.8-alpha.
- If the Nickname configuration option isn't given, Tor would pick a
 nickname based on the local hostname as the nickname for a relay.
 Because nicknames are not very important in today's Tor and the
 "Unnamed" nickname has been implemented, this is now problematic
 behavior: It leaks information about the hostname without being
 useful at all. Fixes bug 2979; bugfix on 0.1.2.2-alpha, which
 introduced the Unnamed nickname. Reported by tagnaq.
- Maintain separate TLS contexts and certificates for incoming and
 outgoing connections in bridge relays. Previously we would use the
 same TLS contexts and certs for incoming and outgoing connections.
 Bugfix on 0.2.0.3-alpha; addresses bug 988.
- Maintain separate identity keys for incoming and outgoing TLS
 contexts in bridge relays. Previously we would use the same
 identity keys for incoming and outgoing TLS contexts. Bugfix on
 0.2.0.3-alpha; addresses the other half of bug 988.
- Make the bridge directory authority refuse to answer directory
 requests for "all descriptors". It used to include bridge
 descriptors in its answer, which was a major information leak.
 Found by "piebeer". Bugfix on 0.2.0.3-alpha.

**Privacy fixes (clients):**

- When receiving a hidden service descriptor, check that it is for
 the hidden service we wanted. Previously, Tor would store any
 hidden service descriptors that a directory gave it, whether it
 wanted them or not. This wouldn't have let an attacker impersonate
 a hidden service, but it did let directories pre-seed a client
 with descriptors that it didn't want. Bugfix on 0.0.6.
- Start the process of disabling ".exit" address notation, since it
 can be used for a variety of esoteric application-level attacks
 on users. To reenable it, set "AllowDotExit 1" in your torrc. Fix
 on 0.0.9rc5.
- Reject attempts at the client side to open connections to private
 IP addresses (like 127.0.0.1, 10.0.0.1, and so on) with
 a randomly chosen exit node. Attempts to do so are always
 ill-defined, generally prevented by exit policies, and usually
 in error. This will also help to detect loops in transparent
 proxy configurations. You can disable this feature by setting
 "ClientRejectInternalAddresses 0" in your torrc.
- Log a notice when we get a new control connection. Now it's easier
 for security-conscious users to recognize when a local application
 is knocking on their controller door. Suggested by bug 1196.

**Privacy fixes (newnym):**

- Avoid linkability based on cached hidden service descriptors: forget
 all hidden service descriptors cached as a client when processing a
 SIGNAL NEWNYM command. Fixes bug 3000; bugfix on 0.0.6.
- On SIGHUP, do not clear out all TrackHostExits mappings, client
 DNS cache entries, and virtual address mappings: that's what
 NEWNYM is for. Fixes bug 1345; bugfix on 0.1.0.1-rc.
- Don't attach new streams to old rendezvous circuits after SIGNAL
 NEWNYM. Previously, we would keep using an existing rendezvous
 circuit if it remained open (i.e. if it were kept open by a
 long-lived stream, or if a new stream were attached to it before
 Tor could notice that it was old and no longer in use). Bugfix on
 0.1.1.15-rc; fixes bug 3375.

**Major bugfixes (relay bandwidth accounting):**

- Fix a bug that could break accounting on 64-bit systems with large
 time\_t values, making them hibernate for impossibly long intervals.
 Fixes bug 2146. Bugfix on 0.0.9pre6; fix by boboper.
- Fix a bug in bandwidth accounting that could make us use twice
 the intended bandwidth when our interval start changes due to
 daylight saving time. Now we tolerate skew in stored vs computed
 interval starts: if the start of the period changes by no more than
 50% of the period's duration, we remember bytes that we transferred
 in the old period. Fixes bug 1511; bugfix on 0.0.9pre5.

**Major bugfixes (bridges):**

- Bridges now use "reject \*:\*" as their default exit policy. Bugfix
 on 0.2.0.3-alpha. Fixes bug 1113.
- If you configure your bridge with a known identity fingerprint,
 and the bridge authority is unreachable (as it is in at least
 one country now), fall back to directly requesting the descriptor
 from the bridge. Finishes the feature started in 0.2.0.10-alpha;
 closes bug 1138.
- Fix a bug where bridge users who configure the non-canonical
 address of a bridge automatically switch to its canonical
 address. If a bridge listens at more than one address, it
 should be able to advertise those addresses independently and
 any non-blocked addresses should continue to work. Bugfix on Tor
 0.2.0.3-alpha. Fixes bug 2510.
- If you configure Tor to use bridge A, and then quit and
 configure Tor to use bridge B instead (or if you change Tor
 to use bridge B via the controller), it would happily continue
 to use bridge A if it's still reachable. While this behavior is
 a feature if your goal is connectivity, in some scenarios it's a
 dangerous bug. Bugfix on Tor 0.2.0.1-alpha; fixes bug 2511.
- When the controller configures a new bridge, don't wait 10 to 60
 seconds before trying to fetch its descriptor. Bugfix on
 0.2.0.3-alpha; fixes bug 3198 (suggested by 2355).

**Major bugfixes (directory authorities):**

- Many relays have been falling out of the consensus lately because
 not enough authorities know about their descriptor for them to get
 a majority of votes. When we deprecated the v2 directory protocol,
 we got rid of the only way that v3 authorities can hear from each
 other about other descriptors. Now authorities examine every v3
 vote for new descriptors, and fetch them from that authority. Bugfix
 on 0.2.1.23.
- Authorities could be tricked into giving out the Exit flag to relays
 that didn't allow exiting to any ports. This bug could screw
 with load balancing and stats. Bugfix on 0.1.1.6-alpha; fixes bug
 1238. Bug discovered by Martin Kowalczyk.
- If all authorities restart at once right before a consensus vote,
 nobody will vote about "Running", and clients will get a consensus
 with no usable relays. Instead, authorities refuse to build a
 consensus if this happens. Bugfix on 0.2.0.10-alpha; fixes bug 1066.

**Major bugfixes (stream-level fairness):**

- When receiving a circuit-level SENDME for a blocked circuit, try
 to package cells fairly from all the streams that had previously
 been blocked on that circuit. Previously, we had started with the
 oldest stream, and allowed each stream to potentially exhaust
 the circuit's package window. This gave older streams on any
 given circuit priority over newer ones. Fixes bug 1937. Detected
 originally by Camilo Viecco. This bug was introduced before the
 first Tor release, in svn commit r152: it is the new winner of
 the longest-lived bug prize.
- Fix a stream fairness bug that would cause newer streams on a given
 circuit to get preference when reading bytes from the origin or
 destination. Fixes bug 2210. Fix by Mashael AlSabah. This bug was
 introduced before the first Tor release, in svn revision r152.
- When the exit relay got a circuit-level sendme cell, it started
 reading on the exit streams, even if had 500 cells queued in the
 circuit queue already, so the circuit queue just grew and grew in
 some cases. We fix this by not re-enabling reading on receipt of a
 sendme cell when the cell queue is blocked. Fixes bug 1653. Bugfix
 on 0.2.0.1-alpha. Detected by Mashael AlSabah. Original patch by
 "yetonetime".
- Newly created streams were allowed to read cells onto circuits,
 even if the circuit's cell queue was blocked and waiting to drain.
 This created potential unfairness, as older streams would be
 blocked, but newer streams would gladly fill the queue completely.
 We add code to detect this situation and prevent any stream from
 getting more than one free cell. Bugfix on 0.2.0.1-alpha. Partially
 fixes bug 1298.

**Major bugfixes (hidden services):**

- Apply circuit timeouts to opened hidden-service-related circuits
 based on the correct start time. Previously, we would apply the
 circuit build timeout based on time since the circuit's creation;
 it was supposed to be applied based on time since the circuit
 entered its current state. Bugfix on 0.0.6; fixes part of bug 1297.
- Improve hidden service robustness: When we find that we have
 extended a hidden service's introduction circuit to a relay not
 listed as an introduction point in the HS descriptor we currently
 have, retry with an introduction point from the current
 descriptor. Previously we would just give up. Fixes bugs 1024 and
 1930; bugfix on 0.2.0.10-alpha.
- Directory authorities now use data collected from their own
 uptime observations when choosing whether to assign the HSDir flag
 to relays, instead of trusting the uptime value the relay reports in
 its descriptor. This change helps prevent an attack where a small
 set of nodes with frequently-changing identity keys can blackhole
 a hidden service. (Only authorities need upgrade; others will be
 fine once they do.) Bugfix on 0.2.0.10-alpha; fixes bug 2709.
- Stop assigning the HSDir flag to relays that disable their
 DirPort (and thus will refuse to answer directory requests). This
 fix should dramatically improve the reachability of hidden services:
 hidden services and hidden service clients pick six HSDir relays
 to store and retrieve the hidden service descriptor, and currently
 about half of the HSDir relays will refuse to work. Bugfix on
 0.2.0.10-alpha; fixes part of bug 1693.

**Major bugfixes (misc):**

- Clients now stop trying to use an exit node associated with a given
 destination by TrackHostExits if they fail to reach that exit node.
 Fixes bug 2999. Bugfix on 0.2.0.20-rc.
- Fix a regression that caused Tor to rebind its ports if it receives
 SIGHUP while hibernating. Bugfix in 0.1.1.6-alpha; closes bug 919.
- Remove an extra pair of quotation marks around the error
 message in control-port STATUS\_GENERAL BUG events. Bugfix on
 0.1.2.6-alpha; fixes bug 3732.

**Minor features (relays):**

- Ensure that no empty [dirreq-](read|write)-history lines are added
 to an extrainfo document. Implements ticket 2497.
- When bandwidth accounting is enabled, be more generous with how
 much bandwidth we'll use up before entering "soft hibernation".
 Previously, we'd refuse new connections and circuits once we'd
 used up 95% of our allotment. Now, we use up 95% of our allotment,
 AND make sure that we have no more than 500MB (or 3 hours of
 expected traffic, whichever is lower) remaining before we enter
 soft hibernation.
- Relays now log the reason for publishing a new relay descriptor,
 so we have a better chance of hunting down instances of bug 1810.
 Resolves ticket 3252.
- Log a little more clearly about the times at which we're no longer
 accepting new connections (e.g. due to hibernating). Resolves
 bug 2181.
- When AllowSingleHopExits is set, print a warning to explain to the
 relay operator why most clients are avoiding her relay.
- Send END\_STREAM\_REASON\_NOROUTE in response to EHOSTUNREACH errors.
 Clients before 0.2.1.27 didn't handle NOROUTE correctly, but such
 clients are already deprecated because of security bugs.

**Minor features (network statistics):**

- Directory mirrors that set "DirReqStatistics 1" write statistics
 about directory requests to disk every 24 hours. As compared to the
 "--enable-geoip-stats" ./configure flag in 0.2.1.x, there are a few
 improvements: 1) stats are written to disk exactly every 24 hours;
 2) estimated shares of v2 and v3 requests are determined as mean
 values, not at the end of a measurement period; 3) unresolved
 requests are listed with country code '??'; 4) directories also
 measure download times.
- Exit nodes that set "ExitPortStatistics 1" write statistics on the
 number of exit streams and transferred bytes per port to disk every
 24 hours.
- Relays that set "CellStatistics 1" write statistics on how long
 cells spend in their circuit queues to disk every 24 hours.
- Entry nodes that set "EntryStatistics 1" write statistics on the
 rough number and origins of connecting clients to disk every 24
 hours.
- Relays that write any of the above statistics to disk and set
 "ExtraInfoStatistics 1" include the past 24 hours of statistics in
 their extra-info documents. Implements proposal 166.

**Minor features (GeoIP and statistics):**

- Provide a log message stating which geoip file we're parsing
 instead of just stating that we're parsing the geoip file.
 Implements ticket 2432.
- Make sure every relay writes a state file at least every 12 hours.
 Previously, a relay could go for weeks without writing its state
 file, and on a crash could lose its bandwidth history, capacity
 estimates, client country statistics, and so on. Addresses bug 3012.
- Relays report the number of bytes spent on answering directory
 requests in extra-info descriptors similar to {read,write}-history.
 Implements enhancement 1790.
- Report only the top 10 ports in exit-port stats in order not to
 exceed the maximum extra-info descriptor length of 50 KB. Implements
 task 2196.
- If writing the state file to disk fails, wait up to an hour before
 retrying again, rather than trying again each second. Fixes bug
 2346; bugfix on Tor 0.1.1.3-alpha.
- Delay geoip stats collection by bridges for 6 hours, not 2 hours,
 when we switch from being a public relay to a bridge. Otherwise
 there will still be clients that see the relay in their consensus,
 and the stats will end up wrong. Bugfix on 0.2.1.15-rc; fixes
 bug 932.
- Update to the August 2 2011 Maxmind GeoLite Country database.

**Minor features (clients):**

- When expiring circuits, use microsecond timers rather than
 one-second timers. This can avoid an unpleasant situation where a
 circuit is launched near the end of one second and expired right
 near the beginning of the next, and prevent fluctuations in circuit
 timeout values.
- If we've configured EntryNodes and our network goes away and/or all
 our entrynodes get marked down, optimistically retry them all when
 a new socks application request appears. Fixes bug 1882.
- Always perform router selections using weighted relay bandwidth,
 even if we don't need a high capacity circuit at the time. Non-fast
 circuits now only differ from fast ones in that they can use relays
 not marked with the Fast flag. This "feature" could turn out to
 be a horrible bug; we should investigate more before it goes into
 a stable release.
- When we run out of directory information such that we can't build
 circuits, but then get enough that we can build circuits, log when
 we actually construct a circuit, so the user has a better chance of
 knowing what's going on. Fixes bug 1362.
- Log SSL state transitions at debug level during handshake, and
 include SSL states in error messages. This may help debug future
 SSL handshake issues.

**Minor features (directory authorities):**

- When a router changes IP address or port, authorities now launch
 a new reachability test for it. Implements ticket 1899.
- Directory authorities now reject relays running any versions of
 Tor between 0.2.1.3-alpha and 0.2.1.18 inclusive; they have
 known bugs that keep RELAY\_EARLY cells from working on rendezvous
 circuits. Followup to fix for bug 2081.
- Directory authorities now reject relays running any version of Tor
 older than 0.2.0.26-rc. That version is the earliest that fetches
 current directory information correctly. Fixes bug 2156.
- Directory authorities now do an immediate reachability check as soon
 as they hear about a new relay. This change should slightly reduce
 the time between setting up a relay and getting listed as running
 in the consensus. It should also improve the time between setting
 up a bridge and seeing use by bridge users.
- Directory authorities no longer launch a TLS connection to every
 relay as they startup. Now that we have 2k+ descriptors cached,
 the resulting network hiccup is becoming a burden. Besides,
 authorities already avoid voting about Running for the first half
 hour of their uptime.
- Directory authorities now log the source of a rejected POSTed v3
 networkstatus vote, so we can track failures better.
- Backport code from 0.2.3.x that allows directory authorities to
 clean their microdescriptor caches. Needed to resolve bug 2230.

**Minor features (hidden services):**

- Use computed circuit-build timeouts to decide when to launch
 parallel introduction circuits for hidden services. (Previously,
 we would retry after 15 seconds.)
- Don't allow v0 hidden service authorities to act as clients.
 Required by fix for bug 3000.
- Ignore SIGNAL NEWNYM commands on relay-only Tor instances. Required
 by fix for bug 3000.
- Make hidden services work better in private Tor networks by not
 requiring any uptime to join the hidden service descriptor
 DHT. Implements ticket 2088.
- Log (at info level) when purging pieces of hidden-service-client
 state because of SIGNAL NEWNYM.

**Minor features (controller interface):**

- New "GETINFO net/listeners/(type)" controller command to return
 a list of addresses and ports that are bound for listeners for a
 given connection type. This is useful when the user has configured
 "SocksPort auto" and the controller needs to know which port got
 chosen. Resolves another part of ticket 3076.
- Have the controller interface give a more useful message than
 "Internal Error" in response to failed GETINFO requests.
- Add a TIMEOUT\_RATE keyword to the BUILDTIMEOUT\_SET control port
 event, to give information on the current rate of circuit timeouts
 over our stored history.
- The 'EXTENDCIRCUIT' control port command can now be used with
 a circ id of 0 and no path. This feature will cause Tor to build
 a new 'fast' general purpose circuit using its own path selection
 algorithms.
- Added a BUILDTIMEOUT\_SET controller event to describe changes
 to the circuit build timeout.
- New controller command "getinfo config-text". It returns the
 contents that Tor would write if you send it a SAVECONF command,
 so the controller can write the file to disk itself.

**Minor features (controller protocol):**

- Add a new ControlSocketsGroupWritable configuration option: when
 it is turned on, ControlSockets are group-writeable by the default
 group of the current user. Patch by Jérémy Bobbio; implements
 ticket 2972.
- Tor now refuses to create a ControlSocket in a directory that is
 world-readable (or group-readable if ControlSocketsGroupWritable
 is 0). This is necessary because some operating systems do not
 enforce permissions on an AF\_UNIX sockets. Permissions on the
 directory holding the socket, however, seems to work everywhere.
- Warn when CookieAuthFileGroupReadable is set but CookieAuthFile is
 not. This would lead to a cookie that is still not group readable.
 Closes bug 1843. Suggested by katmagic.
- Future-proof the controller protocol a bit by ignoring keyword
 arguments we do not recognize.

**Minor features (more useful logging):**

- Revise most log messages that refer to nodes by nickname to
 instead use the "$key=nickname at address" format. This should be
 more useful, especially since nicknames are less and less likely
 to be unique. Resolves ticket 3045.
- When an HTTPS proxy reports "403 Forbidden", we now explain
 what it means rather than calling it an unexpected status code.
 Closes bug 2503. Patch from Michael Yakubovich.
- Rate-limit a warning about failures to download v2 networkstatus
 documents. Resolves part of bug 1352.
- Rate-limit the "your application is giving Tor only an IP address"
 warning. Addresses bug 2000; bugfix on 0.0.8pre2.
- Rate-limit "Failed to hand off onionskin" warnings.
- When logging a rate-limited warning, we now mention how many messages
 got suppressed since the last warning.
- Make the formerly ugly "2 unknown, 7 missing key, 0 good, 0 bad,
 2 no signature, 4 required" messages about consensus signatures
 easier to read, and make sure they get logged at the same severity
 as the messages explaining which keys are which. Fixes bug 1290.
- Don't warn when we have a consensus that we can't verify because
 of missing certificates, unless those certificates are ones
 that we have been trying and failing to download. Fixes bug 1145.

**Minor features (log domains):**

- Add documentation for configuring logging at different severities in
 different log domains. We've had this feature since 0.2.1.1-alpha,
 but for some reason it never made it into the manpage. Fixes
 bug 2215.
- Make it simpler to specify "All log domains except for A and B".
 Previously you needed to say "[\*,~A,~B]". Now you can just say
 "[~A,~B]".
- Add a "LogMessageDomains 1" option to include the domains of log
 messages along with the messages. Without this, there's no way
 to use log domains without reading the source or doing a lot
 of guessing.
- Add a new "Handshake" log domain for activities that happen
 during the TLS handshake.

**Minor features (build process):**

- Make compilation with clang possible when using
 "--enable-gcc-warnings" by removing two warning options that clang
 hasn't implemented yet and by fixing a few warnings. Resolves
 ticket 2696.
- Detect platforms that brokenly use a signed size\_t, and refuse to
 build there. Found and analyzed by doorss and rransom.
- Fix a bunch of compile warnings revealed by mingw with gcc 4.5.
 Resolves bug 2314.
- Add support for statically linking zlib by specifying
 "--enable-static-zlib", to go with our support for statically
 linking openssl and libevent. Resolves bug 1358.
- Instead of adding the svn revision to the Tor version string, report
 the git commit (when we're building from a git checkout).
- Rename the "log.h" header to "torlog.h" so as to conflict with fewer
 system headers.
- New --digests command-line switch to output the digests of the
 source files Tor was built with.
- Generate our manpage and HTML documentation using Asciidoc. This
 change should make it easier to maintain the documentation, and
 produce nicer HTML. The build process fails if asciidoc cannot
 be found and building with asciidoc isn't disabled (via the
 "--disable-asciidoc" argument to ./configure. Skipping the manpage
 speeds up the build considerably.

**Minor features (options / torrc):**

- Warn when the same option is provided more than once in a torrc
 file, on the command line, or in a single SETCONF statement, and
 the option is one that only accepts a single line. Closes bug 1384.
- Warn when the user configures two HiddenServiceDir lines that point
 to the same directory. Bugfix on 0.0.6 (the version introducing
 HiddenServiceDir); fixes bug 3289.
- Add new "perconnbwrate" and "perconnbwburst" consensus params to
 do individual connection-level rate limiting of clients. The torrc
 config options with the same names trump the consensus params, if
 both are present. Replaces the old "bwconnrate" and "bwconnburst"
 consensus params which were broken from 0.2.2.7-alpha through
 0.2.2.14-alpha. Closes bug 1947.
- New config option "WarnUnsafeSocks 0" disables the warning that
 occurs whenever Tor receives a socks handshake using a version of
 the socks protocol that can only provide an IP address (rather
 than a hostname). Setups that do DNS locally over Tor are fine,
 and we shouldn't spam the logs in that case.
- New config option "CircuitStreamTimeout" to override our internal
 timeout schedule for how many seconds until we detach a stream from
 a circuit and try a new circuit. If your network is particularly
 slow, you might want to set this to a number like 60.
- New options for SafeLogging to allow scrubbing only log messages
 generated while acting as a relay. Specify "SafeLogging relay" if
 you want to ensure that only messages known to originate from
 client use of the Tor process will be logged unsafely.
- Time and memory units in the configuration file can now be set to
 fractional units. For example, "2.5 GB" is now a valid value for
 AccountingMax.
- Support line continuations in the torrc config file. If a line
 ends with a single backslash character, the newline is ignored, and
 the configuration value is treated as continuing on the next line.
 Resolves bug 1929.

**Minor features (unit tests):**

- Revise our unit tests to use the "tinytest" framework, so we
 can run tests in their own processes, have smarter setup/teardown
 code, and so on. The unit test code has moved to its own
 subdirectory, and has been split into multiple modules.
- Add a unit test for cross-platform directory-listing code.
- Add some forgotten return value checks during unit tests. Found
 by coverity.
- Use GetTempDir to find the proper temporary directory location on
 Windows when generating temporary files for the unit tests. Patch
 by Gisle Vanem.

**Minor features (misc):**

- The "torify" script now uses torsocks where available.
- Make Libevent log messages get delivered to controllers later,
 and not from inside the Libevent log handler. This prevents unsafe
 reentrant Libevent calls while still letting the log messages
 get through.
- Certain Tor clients (such as those behind check.torproject.org) may
 want to fetch the consensus in an extra early manner. To enable this
 a user may now set FetchDirInfoExtraEarly to 1. This also depends on
 setting FetchDirInfoEarly to 1. Previous behavior will stay the same
 as only certain clients who must have this information sooner should
 set this option.
- Expand homedirs passed to tor-checkkey. This should silence a
 coverity complaint about passing a user-supplied string into
 open() without checking it.
- Make sure to disable DirPort if running as a bridge. DirPorts aren't
 used on bridges, and it makes bridge scanning somewhat easier.
- Create the /var/run/tor directory on startup on OpenSUSE if it is
 not already created. Patch from Andreas Stieger. Fixes bug 2573.

**Minor bugfixes (relays):**

- When a relay decides that its DNS is too broken for it to serve
 as an exit server, it advertised itself as a non-exit, but
 continued to act as an exit. This could create accidental
 partitioning opportunities for users. Instead, if a relay is
 going to advertise reject \*:\* as its exit policy, it should
 really act with exit policy "reject \*:\*". Fixes bug 2366.
 Bugfix on Tor 0.1.2.5-alpha. Bugfix by user "postman" on trac.
- Publish a router descriptor even if generating an extra-info
 descriptor fails. Previously we would not publish a router
 descriptor without an extra-info descriptor; this can cause fast
 exit relays collecting exit-port statistics to drop from the
 consensus. Bugfix on 0.1.2.9-rc; fixes bug 2195.
- When we're trying to guess whether we know our IP address as
 a relay, we would log various ways that we failed to guess
 our address, but never log that we ended up guessing it
 successfully. Now add a log line to help confused and anxious
 relay operators. Bugfix on 0.1.2.1-alpha; fixes bug 1534.
- For bandwidth accounting, calculate our expected bandwidth rate
 based on the time during which we were active and not in
 soft-hibernation during the last interval. Previously, we were
 also considering the time spent in soft-hibernation. If this
 was a long time, we would wind up underestimating our bandwidth
 by a lot, and skewing our wakeup time towards the start of the
 accounting interval. Fixes bug 1789. Bugfix on 0.0.9pre5.
- Demote a confusing TLS warning that relay operators might get when
 someone tries to talk to their ORPort. It is not the operator's
 fault, nor can they do anything about it. Fixes bug 1364; bugfix
 on 0.2.0.14-alpha.
- Change "Application request when we're believed to be offline."
 notice to "Application request when we haven't used client
 functionality lately.", to clarify that it's not an error. Bugfix
 on 0.0.9.3; fixes bug 1222.

**Minor bugfixes (bridges):**

- When a client starts or stops using bridges, never use a circuit
 that was built before the configuration change. This behavior could
 put at risk a user who uses bridges to ensure that her traffic
 only goes to the chosen addresses. Bugfix on 0.2.0.3-alpha; fixes
 bug 3200.
- Do not reset the bridge descriptor download status every time we
 re-parse our configuration or get a configuration change. Fixes
 bug 3019; bugfix on 0.2.0.3-alpha.
- Users couldn't configure a regular relay to be their bridge. It
 didn't work because when Tor fetched the bridge descriptor, it found
 that it already had it, and didn't realize that the purpose of the
 descriptor had changed. Now we replace routers with a purpose other
 than bridge with bridge descriptors when fetching them. Bugfix on
 0.1.1.9-alpha. Fixes bug 1776.
- In the special case where you configure a public exit relay as your
 bridge, Tor would be willing to use that exit relay as the last
 hop in your circuit as well. Now we fail that circuit instead.
 Bugfix on 0.2.0.12-alpha. Fixes bug 2403. Reported by "piebeer".

**Minor bugfixes (clients):**

- We now ask the other side of a stream (the client or the exit)
 for more data on that stream when the amount of queued data on
 that stream dips low enough. Previously, we wouldn't ask the
 other side for more data until either it sent us more data (which
 it wasn't supposed to do if it had exhausted its window!) or we
 had completely flushed all our queued data. This flow control fix
 should improve throughput. Fixes bug 2756; bugfix on the earliest
 released versions of Tor (svn commit r152).
- When a client finds that an origin circuit has run out of 16-bit
 stream IDs, we now mark it as unusable for new streams. Previously,
 we would try to close the entire circuit. Bugfix on 0.0.6.
- Make it explicit that we don't cannibalize one-hop circuits. This
 happens in the wild, but doesn't turn out to be a problem because
 we fortunately don't use those circuits. Many thanks to outofwords
 for the initial analysis and to swissknife who confirmed that
 two-hop circuits are actually created.
- Resolve an edge case in path weighting that could make us misweight
 our relay selection. Fixes bug 1203; bugfix on 0.0.8rc1.
- Make the DNSPort option work with libevent 2.x. Don't alter the
 behaviour for libevent 1.x. Fixes bug 1143. Found by SwissTorExit.

**Minor bugfixes (directory authorities):**

- Make directory authorities more accurate at recording when
 relays that have failed several reachability tests became
 unreachable, so we can provide more accuracy at assigning Stable,
 Guard, HSDir, etc flags. Bugfix on 0.2.0.6-alpha. Resolves bug 2716.
- Directory authorities are now more robust to hops back in time
 when calculating router stability. Previously, if a run of uptime
 or downtime appeared to be negative, the calculation could give
 incorrect results. Bugfix on 0.2.0.6-alpha; noticed when fixing
 bug 1035.
- Directory authorities will now attempt to download consensuses
 if their own efforts to make a live consensus have failed. This
 change means authorities that restart will fetch a valid
 consensus, and it means authorities that didn't agree with the
 current consensus will still fetch and serve it if it has enough
 signatures. Bugfix on 0.2.0.9-alpha; fixes bug 1300.
- Never vote for a server as "Running" if we have a descriptor for
 it claiming to be hibernating, and that descriptor was published
 more recently than our last contact with the server. Bugfix on
 0.2.0.3-alpha; fixes bug 911.
- Directory authorities no longer change their opinion of, or vote on,
 whether a router is Running, unless they have themselves been
 online long enough to have some idea. Bugfix on 0.2.0.6-alpha.
 Fixes bug 1023.

**Minor bugfixes (hidden services):**

- Log malformed requests for rendezvous descriptors as protocol
 warnings, not warnings. Also, use a more informative log message
 in case someone sees it at log level warning without prior
 info-level messages. Fixes bug 2748; bugfix on 0.2.0.10-alpha.
- Accept hidden service descriptors if we think we might be a hidden
 service directory, regardless of what our consensus says. This
 helps robustness, since clients and hidden services can sometimes
 have a more up-to-date view of the network consensus than we do,
 and if they think that the directory authorities list us a HSDir,
 we might actually be one. Related to bug 2732; bugfix on
 0.2.0.10-alpha.
- Correct the warning displayed when a rendezvous descriptor exceeds
 the maximum size. Fixes bug 2750; bugfix on 0.2.1.5-alpha. Found by
 John Brooks.
- Clients and hidden services now use HSDir-flagged relays for hidden
 service descriptor downloads and uploads even if the relays have no
 DirPort set and the client has disabled TunnelDirConns. This will
 eventually allow us to give the HSDir flag to relays with no
 DirPort. Fixes bug 2722; bugfix on 0.2.1.6-alpha.
- Only limit the lengths of single HS descriptors, even when multiple
 HS descriptors are published to an HSDir relay in a single POST
 operation. Fixes bug 2948; bugfix on 0.2.1.5-alpha. Found by hsdir.

**Minor bugfixes (controllers):**

- Allow GETINFO fingerprint to return a fingerprint even when
 we have not yet built a router descriptor. Fixes bug 3577;
 bugfix on 0.2.0.1-alpha.
- Send a SUCCEEDED stream event to the controller when a reverse
 resolve succeeded. Fixes bug 3536; bugfix on 0.0.8pre1. Issue
 discovered by katmagic.
- Remove a trailing asterisk from "exit-policy/default" in the
 output of the control port command "GETINFO info/names". Bugfix
 on 0.1.2.5-alpha.
- Make the SIGNAL DUMP controller command work on FreeBSD. Fixes bug
 2917. Bugfix on 0.1.1.1-alpha.
- When we restart our relay, we might get a successful connection
 from the outside before we've started our reachability tests,
 triggering a warning: "ORPort found reachable, but I have no
 routerinfo yet. Failing to inform controller of success." This
 bug was harmless unless Tor is running under a controller
 like Vidalia, in which case the controller would never get a
 REACHABILITY\_SUCCEEDED status event. Bugfix on 0.1.2.6-alpha;
 fixes bug 1172.
- When a controller changes TrackHostExits, remove mappings for
 hosts that should no longer have their exits tracked. Bugfix on
 0.1.0.1-rc.
- When a controller changes VirtualAddrNetwork, remove any mappings
 for hosts that were automapped to the old network. Bugfix on
 0.1.1.19-rc.
- When a controller changes one of the AutomapHosts\* options, remove
 any mappings for hosts that should no longer be automapped. Bugfix
 on 0.2.0.1-alpha.
- Fix an off-by-one error in calculating some controller command
 argument lengths. Fortunately, this mistake is harmless since
 the controller code does redundant NUL termination too. Found by
 boboper. Bugfix on 0.1.1.1-alpha.
- Fix a bug in the controller interface where "GETINFO ns/asdaskljkl"
 would return "551 Internal error" rather than "552 Unrecognized key
 ns/asdaskljkl". Bugfix on 0.1.2.3-alpha.
- Don't spam the controller with events when we have no file
 descriptors available. Bugfix on 0.2.1.5-alpha. (Rate-limiting
 for log messages was already solved from bug 748.)
- Emit a GUARD DROPPED controller event for a case we missed.
- Ensure DNS requests launched by "RESOLVE" commands from the
 controller respect the \_\_LeaveStreamsUnattached setconf options. The
 same goes for requests launched via DNSPort or transparent
 proxying. Bugfix on 0.2.0.1-alpha; fixes bug 1525.

**Minor bugfixes (config options):**

- Tor used to limit HttpProxyAuthenticator values to 48 characters.
 Change the limit to 512 characters by removing base64 newlines.
 Fixes bug 2752. Fix by Michael Yakubovich.
- Complain if PublishServerDescriptor is given multiple arguments that
 include 0 or 1. This configuration will be rejected in the future.
 Bugfix on 0.2.0.1-alpha; closes bug 1107.
- Disallow BridgeRelay 1 and ORPort 0 at once in the configuration.
 Bugfix on 0.2.0.13-alpha; closes bug 928.

**Minor bugfixes (log subsystem fixes):**

- When unable to format an address as a string, report its value
 as "???" rather than reusing the last formatted address. Bugfix
 on 0.2.1.5-alpha.
- Be more consistent in our treatment of file system paths. "~" should
 get expanded to the user's home directory in the Log config option.
 Fixes bug 2971; bugfix on 0.2.0.1-alpha, which introduced the
 feature for the -f and --DataDirectory options.

**Minor bugfixes (memory management):**

- Don't stack-allocate the list of supplementary GIDs when we're
 about to log them. Stack-allocating NGROUPS\_MAX gid\_t elements
 could take up to 256K, which is way too much stack. Found by
 Coverity; CID #450. Bugfix on 0.2.1.7-alpha.
- Save a couple bytes in memory allocation every time we escape
 certain characters in a string. Patch from Florian Zumbiehl.

**Minor bugfixes (protocol correctness):**

- When checking for 1024-bit keys, check for 1024 bits, not 128
 bytes. This allows Tor to correctly discard keys of length 1017
 through 1023. Bugfix on 0.0.9pre5.
- Require that introduction point keys and onion handshake keys
 have a public exponent of 65537. Starts to fix bug 3207; bugfix
 on 0.2.0.10-alpha.
- Handle SOCKS messages longer than 128 bytes long correctly, rather
 than waiting forever for them to finish. Fixes bug 2330; bugfix
 on 0.2.0.16-alpha. Found by doorss.
- Never relay a cell for a circuit we have already destroyed.
 Between marking a circuit as closeable and finally closing it,
 it may have been possible for a few queued cells to get relayed,
 even though they would have been immediately dropped by the next
 OR in the circuit. Fixes bug 1184; bugfix on 0.2.0.1-alpha.
- Never queue a cell for a circuit that's already been marked
 for close.
- Fix a spec conformance issue: the network-status-version token
 must be the first token in a v3 consensus or vote. Discovered by
 "parakeep". Bugfix on 0.2.0.3-alpha.
- A networkstatus vote must contain exactly one signature. Spec
 conformance issue. Bugfix on 0.2.0.3-alpha.
- When asked about a DNS record type we don't support via a
 client DNSPort, reply with NOTIMPL rather than an empty
 reply. Patch by intrigeri. Fixes bug 3369; bugfix on 2.0.1-alpha.
- Make more fields in the controller protocol case-insensitive, since
 control-spec.txt said they were.

**Minor bugfixes (log messages):**

- Fix a log message that said "bits" while displaying a value in
 bytes. Found by wanoskarnet. Fixes bug 3318; bugfix on
 0.2.0.1-alpha.
- Downgrade "no current certificates known for authority" message from
 Notice to Info. Fixes bug 2899; bugfix on 0.2.0.10-alpha.
- Correctly describe errors that occur when generating a TLS object.
 Previously we would attribute them to a failure while generating a
 TLS context. Patch by Robert Ransom. Bugfix on 0.1.0.4-rc; fixes
 bug 1994.
- Fix an instance where a Tor directory mirror might accidentally
 log the IP address of a misbehaving Tor client. Bugfix on
 0.1.0.1-rc.
- Stop logging at severity 'warn' when some other Tor client tries
 to establish a circuit with us using weak DH keys. It's a protocol
 violation, but that doesn't mean ordinary users need to hear about
 it. Fixes the bug part of bug 1114. Bugfix on 0.1.0.13.
- If your relay can't keep up with the number of incoming create
 cells, it would log one warning per failure into your logs. Limit
 warnings to 1 per minute. Bugfix on 0.0.2pre10; fixes bug 1042.

**Minor bugfixes (build fixes):**

- Fix warnings from GCC 4.6's "-Wunused-but-set-variable" option.
- When warning about missing zlib development packages during compile,
 give the correct package names. Bugfix on 0.2.0.1-alpha.
- Fix warnings that newer versions of autoconf produce during
 ./autogen.sh. These warnings appear to be harmless in our case,
 but they were extremely verbose. Fixes bug 2020.
- Squash a compile warning on OpenBSD. Reported by Tas; fixes
 bug 1848.

**Minor bugfixes (portability):**

- Write several files in text mode, on OSes that distinguish text
 mode from binary mode (namely, Windows). These files are:
 'buffer-stats', 'dirreq-stats', and 'entry-stats' on relays
 that collect those statistics; 'client\_keys' and 'hostname' for
 hidden services that use authentication; and (in the tor-gencert
 utility) newly generated identity and signing keys. Previously,
 we wouldn't specify text mode or binary mode, leading to an
 assertion failure. Fixes bug 3607. Bugfix on 0.2.1.1-alpha (when
 the DirRecordUsageByCountry option which would have triggered
 the assertion failure was added), although this assertion failure
 would have occurred in tor-gencert on Windows in 0.2.0.1-alpha.
- Selectively disable deprecation warnings on OS X because Lion
 started deprecating the shipped copy of openssl. Fixes bug 3643.
- Use a wide type to hold sockets when built for 64-bit Windows.
 Fixes bug 3270.
- Fix an issue that prevented static linking of libevent on
 some platforms (notably Linux). Fixes bug 2698; bugfix on 0.2.1.23,
 where we introduced the "--with-static-libevent" configure option.
- Fix a bug with our locking implementation on Windows that couldn't
 correctly detect when a file was already locked. Fixes bug 2504,
 bugfix on 0.2.1.6-alpha.
- Build correctly on OSX with zlib 1.2.4 and higher with all warnings
 enabled.
- Fix IPv6-related connect() failures on some platforms (BSD, OS X).
 Bugfix on 0.2.0.3-alpha; fixes first part of bug 2660. Patch by
 "piebeer".

**Minor bugfixes (code correctness):**

- Always NUL-terminate the sun\_path field of a sockaddr\_un before
 passing it to the kernel. (Not a security issue: kernels are
 smart enough to reject bad sockaddr\_uns.) Found by Coverity;
 CID #428. Bugfix on Tor 0.2.0.3-alpha.
- Make connection\_printf\_to\_buf()'s behaviour sane. Its callers
 expect it to emit a CRLF iff the format string ends with CRLF;
 it actually emitted a CRLF iff (a) the format string ended with
 CRLF or (b) the resulting string was over 1023 characters long or
 (c) the format string did not end with CRLF \*and\* the resulting
 string was 1021 characters long or longer. Bugfix on 0.1.1.9-alpha;
 fixes part of bug 3407.
- Make send\_control\_event\_impl()'s behaviour sane. Its callers
 expect it to always emit a CRLF at the end of the string; it
 might have emitted extra control characters as well. Bugfix on
 0.1.1.9-alpha; fixes another part of bug 3407.
- Make crypto\_rand\_int() check the value of its input correctly.
 Previously, it accepted values up to UINT\_MAX, but could return a
 negative number if given a value above INT\_MAX+1. Found by George
 Kadianakis. Fixes bug 3306; bugfix on 0.2.2pre14.
- Fix a potential null-pointer dereference while computing a
 consensus. Bugfix on tor-0.2.0.3-alpha, found with the help of
 clang's analyzer.
- If we fail to compute the identity digest of a v3 legacy keypair,
 warn, and don't use a buffer-full of junk instead. Bugfix on
 0.2.1.1-alpha; fixes bug 3106.
- Resolve an untriggerable issue in smartlist\_string\_num\_isin(),
 where if the function had ever in the future been used to check
 for the presence of a too-large number, it would have given an
 incorrect result. (Fortunately, we only used it for 16-bit
 values.) Fixes bug 3175; bugfix on 0.1.0.1-rc.
- Be more careful about reporting the correct error from a failed
 connect() system call. Under some circumstances, it was possible to
 look at an incorrect value for errno when sending the end reason.
 Bugfix on 0.1.0.1-rc.
- Correctly handle an "impossible" overflow cases in connection byte
 counting, where we write or read more than 4GB on an edge connection
 in a single second. Bugfix on 0.1.2.8-beta.
- Avoid a double mark-for-free warning when failing to attach a
 transparent proxy connection. Bugfix on 0.1.2.1-alpha. Fixes
 bug 2279.
- Correctly detect failure to allocate an OpenSSL BIO. Fixes bug 2378;
 found by "cypherpunks". This bug was introduced before the first
 Tor release, in svn commit r110.
- Fix a bug in bandwidth history state parsing that could have been
 triggered if a future version of Tor ever changed the timing
 granularity at which bandwidth history is measured. Bugfix on
 Tor 0.1.1.11-alpha.
- Add assertions to check for overflow in arguments to
 base32\_encode() and base32\_decode(); fix a signed-unsigned
 comparison there too. These bugs are not actually reachable in Tor,
 but it's good to prevent future errors too. Found by doorss.
- Avoid a bogus overlapped memcpy in tor\_addr\_copy(). Reported by
 "memcpyfail".
- Set target port in get\_interface\_address6() correctly. Bugfix
 on 0.1.1.4-alpha and 0.2.0.3-alpha; fixes second part of bug 2660.
- Fix an impossible-to-actually-trigger buffer overflow in relay
 descriptor generation. Bugfix on 0.1.0.15.
- Fix numerous small code-flaws found by Coverity Scan Rung 3.

**Minor bugfixes (code improvements):**

- After we free an internal connection structure, overwrite it
 with a different memory value than we use for overwriting a freed
 internal circuit structure. Should help with debugging. Suggested
 by bug 1055.
- If OpenSSL fails to make a duplicate of a private or public key, log
 an error message and try to exit cleanly. May help with debugging
 if bug 1209 ever remanifests.
- Some options used different conventions for uppercasing of acronyms
 when comparing manpage and source. Fix those in favor of the
 manpage, as it makes sense to capitalize acronyms.
- Take a first step towards making or.h smaller by splitting out
 function definitions for all source files in src/or/. Leave
 structures and defines in or.h for now.
- Remove a few dead assignments during router parsing. Found by
 coverity.
- Don't use 1-bit wide signed bit fields. Found by coverity.
- Avoid signed/unsigned comparisons by making SIZE\_T\_CEILING unsigned.
 None of the cases where we did this before were wrong, but by making
 this change we avoid warnings. Fixes bug 2475; bugfix on 0.2.1.28.
- The memarea code now uses a sentinel value at the end of each area
 to make sure nothing writes beyond the end of an area. This might
 help debug some conceivable causes of bug 930.
- Always treat failure to allocate an RSA key as an unrecoverable
 allocation error.
- Add some more defensive programming for architectures that can't
 handle unaligned integer accesses. We don't know of any actual bugs
 right now, but that's the best time to fix them. Fixes bug 1943.

**Minor bugfixes (misc):**

- Fix a rare bug in rend\_fn unit tests: we would fail a test when
 a randomly generated port is 0. Diagnosed by Matt Edman. Bugfix
 on 0.2.0.10-alpha; fixes bug 1808.
- Where available, use Libevent 2.0's periodic timers so that our
 once-per-second cleanup code gets called even more closely to
 once per second than it would otherwise. Fixes bug 943.
- Ignore OutboundBindAddress when connecting to localhost.
 Connections to localhost need to come \_from\_ localhost, or else
 local servers (like DNS and outgoing HTTP/SOCKS proxies) will often
 refuse to listen.
- Update our OpenSSL 0.9.8l fix so that it works with OpenSSL 0.9.8m
 too.
- If any of the v3 certs we download are unparseable, we should
 actually notice the failure so we don't retry indefinitely. Bugfix
 on 0.2.0.x; reported by "rotator".
- When Tor fails to parse a descriptor of any kind, dump it to disk.
 Might help diagnosing bug 1051.
- Make our 'torify' script more portable; if we have only one of
 'torsocks' or 'tsocks' installed, don't complain to the user;
 and explain our warning about tsocks better.
- Fix some urls in the exit notice file and make it XHTML1.1 strict
 compliant. Based on a patch from Christian Kujau.

**Documentation changes:**

- Modernize the doxygen configuration file slightly. Fixes bug 2707.
- Resolve all doxygen warnings except those for missing documentation.
 Fixes bug 2705.
- Add doxygen documentation for more functions, fields, and types.
- Convert the HACKING file to asciidoc, and add a few new sections
 to it, explaining how we use Git, how we make changelogs, and
 what should go in a patch.
- Document the default socks host and port (127.0.0.1:9050) for
 tor-resolve.
- Removed some unnecessary files from the source distribution. The
 AUTHORS file has now been merged into the people page on the
 website. The roadmaps and design doc can now be found in the
 projects directory in svn.

**Deprecated and removed features (config):**

- Remove the torrc.complete file. It hasn't been kept up to date
 and users will have better luck checking out the manpage.
- Remove the HSAuthorityRecordStats option that version 0 hidden
 service authorities could use to track statistics of overall v0
 hidden service usage.
- Remove the obsolete "NoPublish" option; it has been flagged
 as obsolete and has produced a warning since 0.1.1.18-rc.
- Caches no longer download and serve v2 networkstatus documents
 unless FetchV2Networkstatus flag is set: these documents haven't
 haven't been used by clients or relays since 0.2.0.x. Resolves
 bug 3022.

**Deprecated and removed features (controller):**

- The controller no longer accepts the old obsolete "addr-mappings/"
 or "unregistered-servers-" GETINFO values.
- The EXTENDED\_EVENTS and VERBOSE\_NAMES controller features are now
 always on; using them is necessary for correct forward-compatible
 controllers.

**Deprecated and removed features (misc):**

- Hidden services no longer publish version 0 descriptors, and clients
 do not request or use version 0 descriptors. However, the old hidden
 service authorities still accept and serve version 0 descriptors
 when contacted by older hidden services/clients.
- Remove undocumented option "-F" from tor-resolve: it hasn't done
 anything since 0.2.1.16-rc.
- Remove everything related to building the expert bundle for OS X.
 It has confused many users, doesn't work right on OS X 10.6,
 and is hard to get rid of once installed. Resolves bug 1274.
- Remove support for .noconnect style addresses. Nobody was using
 them, and they provided another avenue for detecting Tor users
 via application-level web tricks.
- When we fixed bug 1038 we had to put in a restriction not to send
 RELAY\_EARLY cells on rend circuits. This was necessary as long
 as relays using Tor 0.2.1.3-alpha through 0.2.1.18-alpha were
 active. Now remove this obsolete check. Resolves bug 2081.
- Remove workaround code to handle directory responses from servers
 that had bug 539 (they would send HTTP status 503 responses \_and\_
 send a body too). Since only server versions before
 0.2.0.16-alpha/0.1.2.19 were affected, there is no longer reason to
 keep the workaround in place.
- Remove the old 'fuzzy time' logic. It was supposed to be used for
 handling calculations where we have a known amount of clock skew and
 an allowed amount of unknown skew. But we only used it in three
 places, and we never adjusted the known/unknown skew values. This is
 still something we might want to do someday, but if we do, we'll
 want to do it differently.
- Remove the "--enable-iphone" option to ./configure. According to
 reports from Marco Bonetti, Tor builds fine without any special
 tweaking on recent iPhone SDK versions.

