---
layout: post
title: "Vidalia 0.2.17 is out!"
permalink: vidalia-0217-out
date: 2012-02-13
author: chiiph
category: blog
tags: ["release", "stable", "vidalia"]
---

Hello everyone, it's been a while since we had a Vidalia release, so we thought "why not make two?".

On a more serious comment, the only difference between 0.2.16 and 0.2.17 is what translations are in. Since we changed our translations workflow, we needed to update the availability policy. Basically, every new translation that has more than 90% done gets enabled. If any of the enabled translations drop bellow the 75% done, we take them out.

Remember that if you find any bugs, you can report them at [https://trac.torproject.org/](https://trac.torproject.org/ "https://trac.torproject.org/").

Here's what changed since 0.2.15:

0.2.17 11-Feb-2012

- Improve the translation policy: do not remove translations that  
 are not under 75% done. This re enables Polish and Catalan.

0.2.16 11-Feb-2012

- Make the default data directory in windows be located in the Local  
 AppData instead of the Roaming one. Fixes bug 2319.
- Do not launch Firefox with every CIRCUIT\_ESTABLISHED signal, do it  
 only if Firefox isn't open yet. Fixes bug 2943.
- Uses TAKEOWNERSHIP and \_\_OwningControllerProcess to avoid leaving  
 tor running in background if Vidalia exits unexpectedly. Fixes bug  
 3463.
- Attempt to remove port.conf file before using it to avoid a race  
 condition between tor and Vidalia. Fixes bug 4048.
- Do not allow users to check the "My ISP blocks..." checkbox  
 without entering any bridges. Also updates the  
 documentation. Fixes bug 4290.
- Check that the authentication-cookie file length is exactly 32  
 bytes long. Fixes bug 4304.
- Explicitly disable ControlPort auto. Fixes bug 4379.
- Make the non exit relay option backward compatible with Vidalia <  
 0.2.14 so that it doesn't confuse users. Fixes bug 4642.
- Sets the preferred size for the GUI layout so it doesn't squeeze  
 widges when the size isn't big enough. Fixes bug 4656.
- Removes the option to have only HTTPProxy since it does not work  
 any more as it used to do with older tor versions. Users should  
 use HTTP/HTTPSProxy instead. Fixes bug 4724.
- Add a hidden configuration option called SkipVersionCheck so  
 systems like Tails can force Vidalia to skip checking tor's  
 version. Resolves ticket 4736.
- When Tor has cached enough information it bootstraps faster than  
 what takes Vidalia connect to it, so Vidalia does not see the  
 event to update the progress bar. Now Vidalia explicitly asks for  
 bootstrap-phase when it connects to Tor, and updates the progress  
 to what is actually happening instead of hanging in  
 "Authenticating to Tor". Fixes bug 4827.
- Fix size hints in the main window layout so that tilling window  
 managers display the window properly. Thanks to Mike Warren for  
 the fix. Fixes bug 4907.
- Vidalia only validates IPv4 bridge lines. IPv6 bridges are now  
 available, and there will be pluggable transport bridge lines. So  
 the validation is now delegated to Tor through SETCONF.
- Explicitly disable SocksPort auto by setting it to its default  
 (9050). Fixes bug 4598.
- Sets \_\_ReloadTorrcOnSIGHUP to 0 if SAVECONF failed, which means  
 the user can't write the torrc file. Fixes bug 4833.
- Enable new translations that are >90% done. The new languages are:  
 Bulgarian, Czech, Hebrew, Greek, Indonesian, Korean,  
 Dutch. Resolves ticket 5051.
- Remove translations that aren't ready enough: Japanese, Thai,  
 Albanian, Vietnamese, Chinese (Taiwan), Polish, Catalan and  
 Burmese.

