---
layout: post
title: "Tails 0.13 is out!"
permalink: blog/tails-013-out
date: 2012-09-19
author: tails
category: blog
tags: ["anonymous operating system", "tails"]
---

Tails 0.13 brings its lot of small but useful improvements and fixes a few security issues.

[Download it now.](https://tails.boum.org/download/)

**Changes**

Notable user-visible changes include:

- **Use white-list** /principle of least privilege **approach for local services** .
Only users that need a certain local (i.e. hosted on loopback) service
(according to our use cases) are granted access to it by our firewall;
all other users are denied access.
- Allow to modify language and layout in the "Advanced options" screen
of the greeter.
- Enable four workspaces in the Windows XP camouflage. This allows
users to quickly switch to a more innocent looking workspace in case
they are working on sensitive data and attract unwanted attention.
The workspace switcher applet isn't there, though, since there's no
such thing in Windows XP, so switching is only possible via keyboard
shortcuts.
- Claws Mail now saves local/POP emails in its dot-directory by default
instead of the non-persistent `~/Mail` directory. _Users who are already
using persistence for Claws will have to perform this change manually._
- Add support for wireless regulation.
- Hide the _TailsData_ partition in desktop applications.
- **Tor**
  - Upgrade to 0.2.2.39.

- **Iceweasel**
  - Upgrade iceweasel to 10.0.7esr-2 (Extended Support Release).

- **Hardware support**
  - Upgrade Linux to 3.2.23-1.

- **Software**
  - Upgrade I2P to version 0.9.1.
  - Install GNOME System Monitor.
  - Upgrade WhisperBack to 1.6, with many UI improvements and new translations.

- Ship a **first version of the incremental update system** . Updates are not
currently triggered automatically, but this will allow tests to be done
on larger scales.

Plus the usual bunch of minor bug reports and improvements.

See the [online Changelog](http://git.immerda.ch/?p=amnesia.git;a=blob_plain;f=debian/changelog;hb=refs/tags/0.13) for technical details.

Don't hesitate to [get in touch with us](https://tails.boum.org/support/).

