---
layout: post
title: "Tor 0.2.5.7-rc is out"
permalink: tor-0257-rc-out
date: 2014-09-11 22:48:28
author: arma
category: blog
comments: closed
tags: ["little-t-tor", "tor", "tor-releases"]
---

Tor 0.2.5.7-rc fixes several regressions from earlier in the 0.2.5.x release series, and some long-standing bugs related to ORPort reachability testing and failure to send CREATE cells. It is the first release candidate for the Tor 0.2.5.x series.

The tarball and signature file are currently available from  
 [https://www.torproject.org/dist/](https://www.torproject.org/dist/ "https://www.torproject.org/dist/")  
 and packages and bundles will be available soon.

Changes in version 0.2.5.7-rc - 2014-09-11

-   Major bugfixes (client, startup):
    -   Start making circuits as soon as DisabledNetwork is turned off.  
         When Tor started with DisabledNetwork set, it would correctly  
         conclude that it shouldn't build circuits, but it would mistakenly  
         cache this conclusion, and continue believing it even when  
         DisableNetwork is set to 0. Fixes the bug introduced by the fix  
         for bug 11200; bugfix on 0.2.5.4-alpha.
    -   Resume expanding abbreviations for command-line options. The fix  
         for bug 4647 accidentally removed our hack from bug 586 that  
         rewrote HashedControlPassword to \_\_HashedControlSessionPassword  
         when it appears on the commandline (which allowed the user to set  
         her own HashedControlPassword in the torrc file while the  
         controller generates a fresh session password for each run). Fixes  
         bug 12948; bugfix on 0.2.5.1-alpha.
    -   Warn about attempts to run hidden services and relays in the same  
         process: that's probably not a good idea. Closes ticket 12908.
-   Major bugfixes (relay):
    -   Avoid queuing or sending destroy cells for circuit ID zero when we  
         fail to send a CREATE cell. Fixes bug 12848; bugfix on 0.0.8pre1.  
         Found and fixed by "cypherpunks".
    -   Fix ORPort reachability detection on relays running behind a  
         proxy, by correctly updating the "local" mark on the controlling  
         channel when changing the address of an or\_connection\_t after the  
         handshake. Fixes bug 12160; bugfix on 0.2.4.4-alpha.
-   Minor features (bridge):
    -   Add an ExtORPortCookieAuthFileGroupReadable option to make the  
         cookie file for the ExtORPort g+r by default.
-   Minor features (geoip):
    -   Update geoip and geoip6 to the August 7 2014 Maxmind GeoLite2  
         Country database.
-   Minor bugfixes (logging):
    -   Reduce the log severity of the "Pluggable transport proxy does not  
         provide any needed transports and will not be launched." message,  
         since Tor Browser includes several ClientTransportPlugin lines in  
         its torrc-defaults file, leading every Tor Browser user who looks  
         at her logs to see these notices and wonder if they're dangerous.  
         Resolves bug 13124; bugfix on 0.2.5.3-alpha.
    -   Downgrade "Unexpected onionskin length after decryption" warning  
         to a protocol-warn, since there's nothing relay operators can do  
         about a client that sends them a malformed create cell. Resolves  
         bug 12996; bugfix on 0.0.6rc1.
    -   Log more specific warnings when we get an ESTABLISH\_RENDEZVOUS  
         cell on a cannibalized or non-OR circuit. Resolves ticket 12997.
    -   When logging information about an EXTEND2 or EXTENDED2 cell, log  
         their names correctly. Fixes part of bug 12700; bugfix  
         on 0.2.4.8-alpha.
    -   When logging information about a relay cell whose command we don't  
         recognize, log its command as an integer. Fixes part of bug 12700;  
         bugfix on 0.2.1.10-alpha.
    -   Escape all strings from the directory connection before logging  
         them. Fixes bug 13071; bugfix on 0.1.1.15. Patch from "teor".
-   Minor bugfixes (controller):
    -   Restore the functionality of CookieAuthFileGroupReadable. Fixes  
         bug 12864; bugfix on 0.2.5.1-alpha.
    -   Actually send TRANSPORT\_LAUNCHED and HS\_DESC events to  
         controllers. Fixes bug 13085; bugfix on 0.2.5.1-alpha. Patch  
         by "teor".
-   Minor bugfixes (compilation):
    -   Fix compilation of test.h with MSVC. Patch from Gisle Vanem;  
         bugfix on 0.2.5.5-alpha.
    -   Make the nmake make files work again. Fixes bug 13081. Bugfix on  
         0.2.5.1-alpha. Patch from "NewEraCracker".
    -   In routerlist\_assert\_ok(), don't take the address of a  
         routerinfo's cache\_info member unless that routerinfo is non-NULL.  
         Fixes bug 13096; bugfix on 0.1.1.9-alpha. Patch by "teor".
    -   Fix a large number of false positive warnings from the clang  
         analyzer static analysis tool. This should make real warnings  
         easier for clang analyzer to find. Patch from "teor". Closes  
         ticket 13036.
-   Distribution (systemd):
    -   Verify configuration file via ExecStartPre in the systemd unit  
         file. Patch from intrigeri; resolves ticket 12730.
    -   Explicitly disable RunAsDaemon in the systemd unit file. Our  
         current systemd unit uses "Type = simple", so systemd does not  
         expect tor to fork. If the user has "RunAsDaemon 1" in their  
         torrc, then things won't work as expected. This is e.g. the case  
         on Debian (and derivatives), since there we pass "--defaults-torrc  
         /usr/share/tor/tor-service-defaults-torrc" (that contains  
         "RunAsDaemon 1") by default. Patch by intrigeri; resolves  
         ticket 12731.
-   Documentation:
    -   Adjust the URLs in the README to refer to the new locations of  
         several documents on the website. Fixes bug 12830. Patch from  
         Matt Pagan.
    -   Document 'reject6' and 'accept6' ExitPolicy entries. Resolves  
         ticket 12878.

