---
layout: post
title: "tor 0.2.4.22 released"
permalink: tor-02422-released
date: 2014-06-04 16:29:12
author: phoul
category: blog
status: closed
tags: ["little-t-tor", "tor", "tor-releases"]
---

This is a slightly belated announcement for the release of tor 0.2.4.22. Going into the future, we're planning to publish this information on the blog shortly after it is sent to [tor-announce](https://lists.torproject.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/tor-announce).

Release information is always published first on [tor-talk](https://lists.torproject.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/tor-talk).

Tor 0.2.4.22 backports numerous high-priority fixes from the Tor 0.2.5 alpha release series. These include blocking all authority signing keys that may have been affected by the OpenSSL "heartbleed" bug, choosing a far more secure set of TLS ciphersuites by default, closing a couple of memory leaks that could be used to run a target relay out of RAM, and several others.

Here is the complete changelog:  
  
 Changes in version 0.2.4.22 - 2014-05-16:

-   Major features (security, backport from 0.2.5.4-alpha):
    -   Block authority signing keys that were used on authorities  
         vulnerable to the "heartbleed" bug in OpenSSL (CVE-2014-0160). (We  
         don't have any evidence that these keys \_were\_ compromised; we're  
         doing this to be prudent.) Resolves ticket 11464.
-   Major bugfixes (security, OOM):
    -   Fix a memory leak that could occur if a microdescriptor parse  
         fails during the tokenizing step. This bug could enable a memory  
         exhaustion attack by directory servers. Fixes bug 11649; bugfix  
         on 0.2.2.6-alpha.
-   Major bugfixes (TLS cipher selection, backport from 0.2.5.4-alpha):
    -   The relay ciphersuite list is now generated automatically based on  
         uniform criteria, and includes all OpenSSL ciphersuites with  
         acceptable strength and forward secrecy. Previously, we had left  
         some perfectly fine ciphersuites unsupported due to omission or  
         typo. Resolves bugs 11513, 11492, 11498, 11499. Bugs reported by  
         'cypherpunks'. Bugfix on 0.2.4.8-alpha.
    -   Relays now trust themselves to have a better view than clients of  
         which TLS ciphersuites are better than others. (Thanks to bug  
         11513, the relay list is now well-considered, whereas the client  
         list has been chosen mainly for anti-fingerprinting purposes.)  
         Relays prefer: AES over 3DES; then ECDHE over DHE; then GCM over  
         CBC; then SHA384 over SHA256 over SHA1; and last, AES256 over  
         AES128. Resolves ticket 11528.
    -   Clients now try to advertise the same list of ciphersuites as  
         Firefox 28. This change enables selection of (fast) GCM  
         ciphersuites, disables some strange old ciphers, and stops  
         advertising the ECDH (not to be confused with ECDHE) ciphersuites.  
         Resolves ticket 11438.
-   Minor bugfixes (configuration, security):
    -   When running a hidden service, do not allow TunneledDirConns 0:  
         trying to set that option together with a hidden service would  
         otherwise prevent the hidden service from running, and also make  
         it publish its descriptors directly over HTTP. Fixes bug 10849;  
         bugfix on 0.2.1.1-alpha.
-   Minor bugfixes (controller, backport from 0.2.5.4-alpha):
    -   Avoid sending a garbage value to the controller when a circuit is  
         cannibalized. Fixes bug 11519; bugfix on 0.2.3.11-alpha.
-   Minor bugfixes (exit relay, backport from 0.2.5.4-alpha):
    -   Stop leaking memory when we successfully resolve a PTR record.  
         Fixes bug 11437; bugfix on 0.2.4.7-alpha.
-   Minor bugfixes (bridge client, backport from 0.2.5.4-alpha):
    -   Avoid 60-second delays in the bootstrapping process when Tor is  
         launching for a second time while using bridges. Fixes bug 9229;  
         bugfix on 0.2.0.3-alpha.
-   Minor bugfixes (relays and bridges, backport from 0.2.5.4-alpha):
    -   Give the correct URL in the warning message when trying to run a  
         relay on an ancient version of Windows. Fixes bug 9393.
-   Minor bugfixes (compilation):
    -   Fix a compilation error when compiling with --disable-curve25519.  
         Fixes bug 9700; bugfix on 0.2.4.17-rc.
-   Minor bugfixes:
    -   Downgrade the warning severity for the the "md was still  
         referenced 1 node(s)" warning. Tor 0.2.5.4-alpha has better code  
         for trying to diagnose this bug, and the current warning in  
         earlier versions of tor achieves nothing useful. Addresses warning  
         from bug 7164.
-   Minor features (log verbosity, backport from 0.2.5.4-alpha):
    -   When we run out of usable circuit IDs on a channel, log only one  
         warning for the whole channel, and describe how many circuits  
         there were on the channel. Fixes part of ticket 11553.
-   Minor features (security, backport from 0.2.5.4-alpha):
    -   Decrease the lower limit of MaxMemInCellQueues to 256 MBytes (but  
         leave the default at 8GBytes), to better support Raspberry Pi  
         users. Fixes bug 9686; bugfix on 0.2.4.14-alpha.
-   Documentation (backport from 0.2.5.4-alpha):
    -   Correctly document that we search for a system torrc file before  
         looking in \~/.torrc. Fixes documentation side of 9213; bugfix on  
         0.2.3.18-rc.

